
    Selection criteria:
    Papers that are related to quantum chemistry, specifically light matter interaction, polaritonics, strong light-matter coupling, quantum optics, quantum information science, or electrostaic catalysis. Also cavity quantum electro dynamics.

    Below is a list of papers. For each paper, indicate if it matches the criteria. 
    Respond with a list of the numbers of the matching papers.
    Only write the numbers separated by commas. 
    You should not respond with numbers that are not in the paper list. 

    Paper number 1:
Title: Effect of size dependent strain at various coverage on island formation: Kinetic Monte Carlo study
Authors: Ganesh Aryal
Abstract: Molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) is an epitaxy method for thin film deposition of single crystals. MBE is widely used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including transistors, and it is considered one of the fundamental tools for the development of the nanotechnologies. We have used Kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC) simulation technique to study the crystal growth during Molecular Beam Epitaxy (MBE). KMC is used to simulate the physical phenomena in which the probable events are selected by using pseudo random numbers. In this work, we have studied the effect of strain at various fixed coverage values, with the model which includes varying strain-driven detachment on average island morphology, average island density, relative width distribution and island size distributions. Our simulation results demonstrate that growth on a patterned impurity surface with inclusion of varying strain-driven detachment resulted in improvement the spatial ordering on island morphologies and the size distribution of the islands.

Paper number 2:
Title: Boosting Perovskite Solar Cell Stability: Dual Protection with Ultrathin Plasma Polymer Passivation Layers
Authors: Mahmoud Nabil, Lidia Contreras-Bernal, Gloria P. Moreno-Martinez, Jose Obrero-Perez, Javier Castillo-Seoane, Juan A. Anta, Gerko Oskam, Paul Pistor, Ana Borrás, Juan R. Sanchez-Valencia, Angel Barranco
Abstract: Metal halide perovskite solar cells (MHPSCs) hold great promise related to their high efficiency and low fabrication costs, but their long-term stability under environmental conditions remains a major challenge. In this study, we demonstrate an effective protection strategy to enhance the stability of MHPSCs through the incorporation of a double passivation layer based on an adamantane-based plasma polymer (ADA) at both the electron transport layer (ETL)/perovskite and perovskite/hole transport layer (HTL) interfaces. Our results show that the implemented ADA deposition technique is compatible with delicate substrates such as perovskites thin films, as their optical, morphological and optoelectronic properties are unaltered upon ADA deposition. At the same time, it provides effective protection to the perovskite material in high humidity environments. The ADA-double passivation not only reduces the formation of mobile ionic defects that cause additional recombination, but also significantly reduces humidity-induced degradation and mitigates the photocatalytic degradation caused by TiO2 under UV exposure. Stability tests performed under 100% relative humidity and continuous AM 1.5G illumination (ISOS-L-1) show that ADA dual passivated devices retained 80% of their initial efficiency after 4000 minutes, while reference samples dropped to 30%. The enhanced performance of ADA-passivated cells is attributed to protective nature of the plasma polymer layer resulting in a preservation of photocurrent and the prevention of new recombination routes. This dual passivation strategy offers a promising route to improve the environmental stability of PSCs and extend their operational lifetime.

Paper number 3:
Title: Aharonov-Bohm Interference in Even-Denominator Fractional Quantum Hall States
Authors: Jehyun Kim, Himanshu Dev, Amit Shaer, Ravi Kumar, Alexey Ilin, André Haug, Shelly Iskoz, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, David F. Mross, Ady Stern, Yuval Ronen
Abstract: Position exchange of non-Abelian anyons affects the quantum state of their system in a topologically-protected way. Their expected manifestations in even-denominator fractional quantum Hall (FQH) systems offer the opportunity to directly study their unique statistical properties in interference experiments. In this work, we present the observation of coherent Aharonov-Bohm interference at two even-denominator states in high-mobility bilayer graphene-based van der Waals heterostructures by employing the Fabry-Pérot interferometry (FPI) technique. Operating the interferometer at a constant filling factor, we observe an oscillation period corresponding to two flux quanta inside the interference loop, $\Delta\Phi=2\Phi_0$, at which the interference does not carry signatures of non-Abelian statistics. The absence of the expected periodicity of $\Delta\Phi=4\Phi_0$ may indicate that the interfering quasiparticles carry the charge $e^* = \frac{1}{2}e$ or that interference of $e^* = \frac{1}{4}e$ quasiparticles is thermally smeared. Interestingly, at two hole-conjugate states, we also observe oscillation periods of half the expected value, indicating interference of $e^* = \frac{2}{3}e$ quasiparticles instead of $e^* = \frac{1}{3}e$. To probe statistical phase contributions, we operated the FPI with controlled deviations of the filling factor, thereby introducing fractional quasiparticles inside the interference loop. The resulting changes to the interference patterns at both half-filled states indicate that the additional bulk quasiparticles carry the fundamental charge $e^*=\frac{1}{4}e$, as expected for non-Abelian anyons.

Paper number 4:
Title: Chirality-induced pseudo-magnetic fields, flat bands and enhancement of superconductivity
Authors: Zhiyu Dong, Leonid Levitov, Patrick A. Lee
Abstract: Systems in which exchange interactions couple carrier spins to a spin texture with a net chirality exhibit a spin-dependent Aharonov-Bohm effect, where the geometric gauge field and pseudo-magnetic field have opposite signs for carriers with opposite spins. As a result, Cooper pairs see a net zero vector potential and superconducting pairing is not hindered by pair-breaking effects. This allows superconductivity to occur even when the geometric field induces quantized Landau levels. We identify the dominant pairing order as an s-wave pair density wave of an FFLO type. Flat Landau levels can significantly enhance superconducting $T_c$, favoring superconductivity over competing orders. This exotic paired state features tell-tale signatures such as flat bands of Bogoliubov-deGennes quasiparticles, manifest through Landau level-like resonances in the quasiparticle density of states.

Paper number 5:
Title: Spin waves in Co$_2$FeGe films
Authors: D. Popadiuk, A. Vovk, S.A. Bunyaev, G.N. Kakazei, J.P. Araujo, P. Strichovanec, P.A. Algarabel, V. Golub, A. Kravets, V. Korenivski, A. Trzaskowska
Abstract: The dynamic magnetic properties of Full Heusler alloy thin films of Co$_2$FeGe, grown on MgO (001) substrates under different thermal conditions, were investigated. Brillouin light scattering and ferromagnetic resonance measurements revealed that depositing at room temperature followed by annealing at 300 deg C for 1 hour produces the best results for maximizing magnetization, exchange stiffness, and minimizing spin-dynamic dissipation in the films, which are desirable characteristics for high-speed spintronic devices. Additionally, strong hybridization of spin waves in the Damon-Eshbach geometry was observed, which is attractive for applications in magnonic signal processing circuits.

Paper number 6:
Title: Direct Comparison of Magnetic Penetration Depth in Kagome Superconductors AV$_3$Sb$_5$ (A = Cs, K, Rb)
Authors: Austin Kaczmarek, Andrea Capa Salinas, Stephen D. Wilson, Katja C. Nowack
Abstract: We report measurements of the local temperature-dependent penetration depth, $\lambda(T)$, in the Kagome superconductors AV$_3$Sb$_5$ (A = Cs, K, Rb) using scanning superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) microscopy. Our results suggest that the superconducting order in all three compounds is fully gapped, in contrast to reports of nodal superconductivity in KV$_3$Sb$_5$ and RbV$_3$Sb$_5$. Analysis of the temperature-dependent superfluid density, $\rho_s(T)$, shows deviations from the behavior expected for a single isotropic gap, but the data are well described by models incorporating either a single anisotropic gap or two isotropic gaps. Notably, the temperature dependences of $\lambda(T)$ and $\rho_s(T)$ in KV$_3$Sb$_5$ and RbV$_3$Sb$_5$ are qualitatively more similar to each other than to CsV$_3$Sb$_5$, consistent with the superconducting phase reflecting features of the normal-state band structure. Our findings provide a direct comparison of the superconducting properties across the AV$_3$Sb$_5$ family.

Paper number 7:
Title: Properties of a static dipolar impurity in a 2D dipolar BEC
Authors: Neelam Shukla, Jeremy R Armstrong
Abstract: We study a system of ultra cold dipolar Bose gas atoms confined in a two-dimensional (2D) harmonic trap with a dipolar impurity implanted at the center of the trap. Due to recent experimental progress in dipolar condensates, we focused on calculating properties of dipolar impurity systems that might guide experimentalists if they choose to study impurities in dipolar gases. We used the Gross-Pitaevskii formalism solved numerically via the split-step Crank-Nicolson method. We chose parameters of the background gas to be consistent with dysprosium (Dy), one of the strongest magnetic dipoles and of current experimental interest, and used chromium (Cr), erbium (Er), terbium (Tb), and Dy for the impurity. The dipole moments were aligned by an external field along what was chosen to be the z-axis, and studied 2D confinements that were perpendicular or parallel to the external field. We show density contour plots for the two confinements, 1D cross sections of the densities, calculated self-energies of the impurities while varying both number of atoms in the condensate and the symmetry of the trap. We also calculated the time evolution of the density of an initially pure system where an impurity is introduced. Our results found that while the self-energy increases in magnitude with increasing number of particles, it is reduced when the trap anisotropy follows the natural anisotropy of the gas, i.e., elongated along the z-axis in the case of parallel confinement. This work builds upon work done in Bose gases with zero-range interactions and demonstrates some of the features that could be found when exploring dipolar impurities in 2D Bose gases.

Paper number 8:
Title: Superconducting Diode Effect in Double Quantum Dot Device
Authors: Go Takeuchi, Mikio Eto
Abstract: Superconducting diode effect (SDE) is theoretically examined in double quantum dot coupled to three superconducting leads, $L$, $R1$ and $R2$. Lead $L$ is commonly connected to two quantum dots (QD1, QD2) while lead $R1$ ($R2$) is connected to QD1 (QD2) only. The phase differences $\varphi_{1}$ between leads $L$ and $R1$ and $\varphi_{2}$ between leads $L$ and $R2$ are tuned independently. The critical current into lead $R1$ depends on its direction unless $\varphi_{2} = 0$, $\pi$, which is ascribable to the formation of Andreev molecule between the QDs. In the absence of electron-electron interaction $U$ in the QDs, the spectrum of the Andreev bound states forms Dirac cones in the $\varphi_{1}-\varphi_{2}$ plane if the energy levels in the QDs are tuned to the Fermi level in the leads. The SDE is enhanced to almost 30\% when $\varphi_{2}$ is set to the value at the Dirac points. In the presence of $U$, the SDE is still observed when $U$ is smaller than the superconducting energy gap in the leads. Our device should be one of the minimal models for the SDE since a similar device with a single QD does not show the SDE.

Paper number 9:
Title: Exploring Grassmann manifolds in topological systems via quantum distance
Authors: Shin-Ming Huang, Dimitrios Giataganas
Abstract: Quantum states defined over a parameter space form a Grassmann manifold. To capture the geometry of the associated gauge structure, gauge-invariant quantities are essential. We employ the projector of a multilevel system to quantify the quantum distance between states. Using the multidimensional scaling method, we transform the quantum distance into a reconstructed manifold embedded in Euclidean space. This approach is demonstrated with examples of topological systems, showcasing their topological features within these manifolds. Our method provides a comprehensive view of the manifold, rather than focusing on local properties.

Paper number 10:
Title: Interplay between interfacial Dzyaloshinskii Moriya interaction and magnetic anisotropy in 4d transition metal multilayers for skyrmion nucleation
Authors: Tamali Mukherjee, Banasree Sadhukhan, V Satya Narayana Murthy
Abstract: Skyrmions refer to small swirling spin structures that emerge in ferromagnetic materials and show promising features to be used as a `bit' of information in future spintronic devices. Our research explores the possibility of nucleating skyrmions in X-Fe/Ir(111) multilayer nano-structure where, X is one of the 4d transition metals, such as, Pd, Rh, Ru, Mo and Nb. The resulting final state is determined by the competition between the frustrated exchange interaction, primarily contributed by the top 4d transition metal layer, and the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions induced significantly by the 5d heavy metal Ir(111) layer. We apply a perpendicular dc magnetic field to the nano-structure and observe gradual phase transformation from the spin spiral ground state to a stable relaxed state of nano-scale skyrmions . A proper choice of magnetic anisotropy and interfacial Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction leads to a range of external magnetic fields essential for the existence and stability of skyrmions. By raising the temperature, we assess the thermal stability of the nucleated skyrmions to evaluate their potential as information carriers in future spintronic devices.

Paper number 11:
Title: Phase-Space Approach to Wannier Pairing and Bogoliubov Orbitals in Square-Octagon Lattices
Authors: Rajesh O. Sharma, Tanmoy Das
Abstract: Low-energy lattice models are the cornerstone for understanding many-body effects and interactions between systems and measurements. A key challenge is identifying appropriate states that canonically transform between momentum and real space while retaining the correlation, entanglement, and geometric properties - generally called the Wannier obstruction. Here, we introduce a phase-space approach to bypass these obstructions. Instead of treating phase space as a manifold, we embed real space through a Bloch vector space at each momentum. Orbital and spin states are introduced through product states with the Bloch vector, while quantum statistics, correlations, topology, and entanglements are inherited from the Hamiltonian. We apply this framework to explore unconventional pairing symmetry and the Bogoliubov-de-Gennes (BdG) equation in the phase space. Our findings demonstrate that while superconductivity exhibits global coherence in momentum space, the local Wannier orbital symmetry primarily determines the pairing symmetry. We analytically solve the spin-fluctuation mediated pairing symmetry on the phase space by engineering a flat band with artificial gauge fields. We then apply the model to a square-octagon superconductor Lu$_2$Fe$_3$Si$_5$ using density functional theory (DFT) to unravel a coexistence of nodeless $s_{\pm}$ and nodal $s_{z^2}$ pairing symmetries. This phase-space framework provides a robust, obstruction-free lattice model for complex many-body systems and their exotic excitations.

Paper number 12:
Title: An Addressable and Tunable Module for Donor-based Scalable Silicon Quantum Computing
Authors: Shihang Zhang, Yu He, Peihao Huang
Abstract: Donor-based spin qubit offers a promising silicon quantum computing route for building large-scale qubit arrays, attributed to its long coherence time and advancements in nanoscale donor placement. However, the state-of-the-art device designs face scalability challenges, notably in achieving tunable two-qubit coupling and ensuring qubit addressability. Here, we propose a surface-code-compatible architecture, where each module has both tunable two-qubit gates and addressable single-qubit gates by introducing only a single extra donor in a pair of donors. We found that to compromise between the requirement of tunability and that of addressability, an asymmetric scheme is necessary. In this scheme, the introduced extra donor is strongly tunnel-coupled to one of the donor spin qubits for addressable single-qubit operation, while being more weakly coupled to the other to ensure the turning on and off of the two-qubit operation. The fidelity of single-qubit and two-qubit gates can exceed the fault-tolerant threshold in our design. Additionally, the asymmetric scheme effectively mitigates valley oscillations, allowing for engineering precision tolerances up to a few nanometers. Thus, our proposed scheme presents a promising prototype for large-scale, fault-tolerant, donor-based spin quantum processors.

Paper number 13:
Title: Inverse Rashba-Edelstein THz emission modulation induced by ferroelectricity in CoFeB/PtSe2/MoSe2//LiNbO3 systems
Authors: S. Massabeau, O. Paull, A. Pezo, F. Miljevic, M. Mičica, A. Grisard, P. Morfin, R. Lebrun, H. Jaffrès, S. Dhillon, J.-M. George, M. Jamet, M. Bibes
Abstract: Spintronic Terahertz emitters, based on optically triggered spin-to-charge interconversion processes, have recently emerged as novel route towards compact and efficient THz sources. Yet, the next challenge for further technologically-relevant devices remains to modulate the emission, with low-energy consumption operation. To this aim, ferroelectric materials coupled to active spin-orbit layers such as two-dimensional transition metal dichalcogenides are suitable candidates. In this work, we present the realization of a large area heterostructure of CoFeB/PtSe2/MoSe2 on a bi-domain LiNbO3 substrate. Using THz time-domain spectroscopy, we show that the ferroelectric polarization direction induces a sizeable modulation of the THz emission. We rationalise these experimental results by using band structure and spin accumulation calculations that are consistent with an interfacial spin-to-charge conversion mediated by inverse Rashba-Edelstein effect at the MoSe2/PtSe2 interface and being tuned by ferroelectricity in the adjacent LiNbO3 surface. This work points out the relevance of field effect spin-orbit architectures for novel THz technologies.

Paper number 14:
Title: Ultrasonic-assisted liquid phase exfoliation for high-yield monolayer graphene with enhanced crystallinity
Authors: Kaitong Sun, Si Wu, Junchao Xia, Yinghao Zhu, Guanping Xu, Hai-Feng Li
Abstract: Graphene stands as a promising material with vast potential across energy storage, electronics, etc. Here, we present a novel mechanical approach utilizing ultrasonic high-energy intercalation exfoliation to extract monolayer graphene from graphite, offering a simple yet efficient alternative to conventional methods. Through a comprehensive series of characterizations involving atomic force microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, Raman spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, the resulting graphene nanosheets demonstrate superior crystallinity compared to those obtained via the conventional method. The high-crystalline freestanding graphene nanosheets derived from this method not only facilitate easier separation but also significantly enhance the physical performance of the original materials. This method showcases the potential for scalable production of layered materials with increased yield and crystallinity, paving the way for their utilization in various applications.

Paper number 15:
Title: Multiferroic collinear antiferromagnet with hidden altermagnetic split
Authors: Jin Matsuda, Hikaru Watanabe, Arita Ryotaro
Abstract: Altermagnets exhibit nonrelativistic spin splitting due to the breaking of time-reversal symmetry and have been garnering significant attention as promising materials for spintronic applications. In contrast, conventional antiferromagnets without spin splitting seem not to have any symmetry breaking and have drawn less attention. However, we show that conventional antiferromagnets with a nonzero propagation vector (Q vector) bring about nontrivial symmetry breakings. The incompatibility between the Q vector and nonsymmorphic symmetry leads to macroscopic symmetry breaking without lifting spin degeneracy. Moreover, the hidden altermagnetic spin splitting in the electronic structure gives rise to various emergent responses. To examine our prediction, we perform first-principles calculations for MnS2 and investigate its multiferroic properties, such as nonlinear transport and optical activity. Our findings reveal unique properties in conventional antiferromagnets, providing another perspective for designing spintronic materials.

Paper number 16:
Title: Altermagnetism Induced Topological Phase Transitions in Kane-Mele Model
Authors: Zhengtian Li, Zeyu Li, Zhenhua Qiao
Abstract: We theoretically demonstrate that Chern number tunable quantum anomalous Hall effect (QAHE) and second-order topological insulators can be induced in the two-dimensional $\mathbb{Z}_2$ topological insulator (TI), i.e., Kane-Mele model, by applying $d$-wave altermagnetism. When the Néel vector of altermagentism lies in the $x-y$ plane, the $\mathbb{Z}_2$ TI is broken and driven into a second-order topological insulator phase, exhibiting the representative corner states at nanoflakes. When the intrinsic Rashba spin-orbit coupling is further included, the second-order TI is further driven into the QAHE phase with various Chern numbers (e.g., $\mathcal{C}=\pm1$ or $\pm3$). When the Néel vector is along $z$ direction, the intrinsic Rashba spin-orbit coupling is necessary to break the mirror symmetry to allow a sequential emergence of second-order TI and QAHE along with the increase of altermagentism strength. We also observe the QAHE with mixed-chirality, i.e., there exist counter-propagating edge modes but net chiral current at the ribbon boundary. Our work shows that altermagnetism can play a crucial role in exploring a rich variety of topological phases, just like its counterparts of ferromagnetism and antiferromagnetism.

Paper number 17:
Title: An ab-initio study on engineering quantum anomalous Hall effect in compensated antiferromagnet MnBi$_{2}$Te$_{4}$
Authors: Zeyu Li, Yulei Han, Zhenhua Qiao
Abstract: Recently, the quantum anomalous Hall effect (QAHE) has been theoretically proposed in compensated antiferromagnetic systems by using the magnetic topological insulator model [see arXiv:2404.13305 (2024)]. However, the related and systematic study based on a realistic material system is still limited. As the only experimentally realized antiferromagnetic topological insulator, MnBi$_{2}$Te$_{4}$ becomes a vital platform for exploring various topological states. In this work, by using the comprehensive first-principles calculations, we demonstrate that the QAHE can also be realized in compensated antiferromagnetic even-septuple-layer MnBi$_{2}$Te$_{4}$ without combined parity-time ($\mathcal{PT}$) symmetry. Using a magnetic topological insulator model, the layer-resolved Chern number is calculated to further understand the physical origin of different Chern numbers. The application of external hydrostatic pressure can strengthen the Te-Te quasicovalent bond due to the dramatic compression of the van der Waals gap. Thus, the resulting topological nontrivial gap can exceed the room-temperature energy scale in a wide range of pressures. Additionally, we find that constructing MnBi$_{2}$Te$_{4}$/CrI$_{3}$ heterostructure can realize the compensated antiferromagnetic configurations with QAHE. Our findings illustrate the realization of QAHE in compensated antiferromagnetic even-septuple-layer MnBi$_{2}$Te$_{4}$ and provide a reliable strategy to obtain the corresponding magnetic configurations.

Paper number 18:
Title: Magnetic Phase Diagram of Mn3+xSn1-x Epitaxial Thin Films: Extending the Anomalous Hall Effect to Low Temperatures via Intrinsic Alloying
Authors: K. Gas, J.-Y. Yoon, Y. Sato, H. Kubota, P. Dluzewski, S. Kret, J. Z. Domagala, Y. K. Edathumkandy, Y. Takeuchi, S. Kanai, H. Ohno, M. Sawicki, S. Fukami
Abstract: Antiferromagnets with broken time-reversal symmetry, such as Mn3Sn, have emerged as promising platforms for exploring topological and correlated electron physics. Mn3Sn is known to show two magnetic phase transitions: a non-collinear inverse triangular antiferromagnetic (IT-AFM) spin configuration is formed below its Neel temperature, whereas at T1 that usually locates below room temperature, it transits to an incommensurate spin state. Accordingly, intriguing properties such as a strong anomalous Hall effect, observed from TN to T1, disappear below T1, limiting its utility at low temperatures. While bulk Mn3Sn has been extensively studied, the magnetic phase transitions and their tunability in thin films remain largely unexplored. Here, we investigate the magnetic and magneto-transport properties of Mn3+xSn1-x epitaxial thin films prepared by magnetron sputtering, systematically varying the Mn-Sn composition. Our results reveal that intrinsic alloying with Mn provides us with a handle to tune T1, with the IT-AFM phase stabilized down to liquid helium temperatures for x > 0.15. From a magnetic phase diagram for epitaxial thin films, we also find a consistent magnetic anomaly ~55 K below TN, accompanied by thermal hysteresis. Furthermore, the reduction of TN in thin films relative to bulk values is shown to correlate with lattice parameter changes. These findings extend the accessible temperature range for Mn3Sn's topological properties, paving the way for novel applications and further investigations into the interplay of spin, lattice, and electronic degrees of freedom in thin-film geometries.

Paper number 19:
Title: Quantum Transport in Interacting Spin Chains: Exact Derivation of the GUE Tracy-Widom Distribution
Authors: Kazuya Fujimoto, Tomohiro Sasamoto
Abstract: We theoretically study quantum spin transport in a one-dimensional folded XXZ model with an alternating domain-wall initial state via the Bethe ansatz technique, exactly demonstrating that a probability distribution of finding a left-most up-spin with an appropriate scaling variable converges to the Tracy-Widom distribution for the Gaussian unitary ensemble (GUE), which is a universal distribution for the largest eigenvalue of GUE under a soft-edge scaling limit. Our finding presented here offers a first exact derivation of the GUE Tracy-Widom distribution in the dynamics of the interacting quantum model not being mapped to a noninteracting fermion Hamiltonian via the Jordan-Wigner transformation. On the basis of the exact solution of the folded XXZ model and our numerical analysis of the XXZ model, we discuss a universal behavior for the probability of finding the left-most up-spin in the XXZ model.

Paper number 20:
Title: Impact of Doping Spiro-OMeTAD with Li-TFSI, FK209, and tBP on the Performance of Perovskite Solar Cells
Authors: Mehran Hosseinzadeh Dizaj
Abstract: This study delves into the effects of doping Spiro-OMeTAD, a widely employed hole transport material (HTM) in perovskite solar cells, with three distinct impurities: lithium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide (Li-TFSI), FK209, and tertbutylpyridine (tBP). The focus lies on their influence on critical photovoltaic parameters, including Fill Factor (FF), power conversion efficiency (eta), short-circuit current density (Jsc), and open-circuit voltage (Voc). Employing advanced simulation tools, we systematically compare the performance of undoped and doped Spiro-OMeTAD structures. Among the examined dopants, Li-TFSI exhibits the most pronounced enhancements, significantly improving both FF and efficiency. In contrast, FK209 and tBP yield moderate gains in device performance. These results underscore the superior charge transport properties imparted by Li-TFSI doping and its capacity to optimize HTM functionality, thereby presenting a promising approach to advancing the efficiency and stability of perovskite solar cells

Paper number 21:
Title: Can solvents tie knots? Helical folds of biopolymers in liquid environments
Authors: Rhoslyn Coles, Myfanwy E. Evans
Abstract: Helices are the quintessential geometric motif of microscale self-assembly, from $\alpha$-helices in proteins to double helices in DNA. Assembly of the helical geometry of biopolymers is a foundational step in a hierarchy of structure that eventually leads to biological activity. Simulating self-assembly in a simplified and controlled setting allows us to probe the relevance of the solvent as a component of the system of collaborative processes governing biomaterials. Using a simulation technique based on the morphometric approach to solvation, we performed computer experiments which fold a short open flexible tube, modelling a biopolymer in an aqueous environment, according to the interaction of the tube with the solvent alone. Different fluid environments may favour quite different solute geometry: We find an array of helical geometries that self-assemble depending on the solvent conditions, including overhand knot shapes and symmetric double helices where the strand folds back on itself. Interestingly these shapes-in all their variety-are energetically favoured over the $\alpha$-helix. In differentiating the role of solvation in self-assembly our study helps illuminate the energetic background scenery in which all soluble biomolecules live, indeed our results demonstrate that the solvent is capable of quite fundamental rearrangements even up to tying a simple overhand knot.

Paper number 22:
Title: Actively-trained magnetic Moment Tensor Potentials reproduce mechanical, dynamical, and thermal properties of paramagnetic CrN
Authors: Alexey S. Kotykhov, Max Hodapp, Christian Tantardini, Konstantin Kravtsov, Ivan Kruglov, Alexander V. Shapeev, Ivan S. Novikov
Abstract: We present a protocol for automated fitting of magnetic Moment Tensor Potential explicitly including magnetic moments in its functional form. For the fitting of this potential we use energies, forces, stresses, and magnetic forces (negative derivatives of energies with respect to magnetic moments) of configurations selected with an active learning algorithm. These selected configurations are computed using constrained density functional theory, which enables calculating energies and their derivatives for both equilibrium and non-equilibrium (excited) magnetic states. We test our protocol on the system of B1-CrN and demonstrate that the automatically trained magnetic Moment Tensor Potential reproduces mechanical, dynamical, and thermal properties, of B1-CrN in the paramagnetic state with respect to density functional theory and experiments.

Paper number 23:
Title: Luminescence of the Cs2ZrCl6 under high pressure
Authors: L.-I. Bulyk, D. Wlodarczyk, S.S. Nagorny, V.V. Nahorna, P. Wang, A. Suchocki
Abstract: The luminescence and Raman spectra of the Cs2ZrCl6 crystal in a wide range of pressures were studied in this work for the first time. Luminescence measurements were performed up to 10 GPa, while the Raman spectra were measured up to 20 GPa. The luminescence data revealed a linear blue shift of the emission maximum from about 2.5 eV at ambient pressure to 3.1 eV at 5 GPa and a strong intensity quenching. The indirect-to-direct bandgap transition at about 5 GPa, a phenomenon previously predicted only theoretically, was used to explain the strong quenching of the luminescence. This model was confirmed by fitting luminescence intensity data and analysis of the luminescence decay kinetics, which exhibited a shortening of the pulse decay time with the pressure increase. Raman spectra confirmed the stability of Cs2ZrCl6 up to 20 GPa and showed no evidence of the pressure-induced structural phase transitions. An energetic scheme of excitonic levels, which takes into account the indirect-to-direct band gasp transition, was proposed to explain the rapid luminescence quenching with increasing pressure.

Paper number 24:
Title: Quantum-inspired design of a tunable broadband high-Q acoustic resonator
Authors: Jeffrey Shi, Benjamin H. November, Stephen Carr, Harris Pirie, Jennifer E. Hoffman
Abstract: Resonators with a high quality factor (Q) are crucial components in a wide range of advanced technologies, including energy harvesting, chemical and biological sensing, and second-harmonic generation. Many applications also require resonance across a broad frequency range. However, single-cavity resonators face a fundamental trade-off between bandwidth and quality factor. Here we propose an acoustic resonator that overcomes this limitation by drawing inspiration from the ladder of harmonic oscillator states observed in twisted van der Waals heterostructures. By simulating an acoustic analog of twisted bilayer graphene, we discover a tunable ladder of acoustic resonances with Q as high as 4,000. These resonances are separated by as little as 10 Hz and persist over a bandwidth as broad as 1 kHz, forming an effective high-Q, broadband system. Our approach offers a promising pathway to overcome the inherent trade-offs in traditional resonators and paves the way for advanced high-Q acoustic devices.

Paper number 25:
Title: Development of a novel Light and Ion Beam Induced Luminescence (LIBIL) setup for in-situ optical characterization of color centers in diamond
Authors: Matija Matijević, Livio Žužić, Jacopo Forneris, Zdravko Siketić
Abstract: In this work, development of the new Laser and Ion Beam Induced Luminescence (LIBIL) experimental end-station has been presented. To systematically test the capabilities and limitations of the newly developed setup, ionoluminescence (IL) and iono-photoluminescence (IPL) measurements were performed on a type IIa optical grade and a type Ib nitrogen rich diamond. By comparing and analyzing the obtained spectra, it was shown that the speed of luminescence quenching has a non-trivial dependence on the ion beam current. Additionally, it was demonstrated that some spectral features characteristic of the negatively charged nitrogen-vacancy color center (i.e. NV$^-$ zero-phonon line) have been observed only during IPL measurements. This demonstrates that the unification of two separate steps, ion implantation and optical characterization, could yield new insights into dynamics of color center formation.

Paper number 26:
Title: Boundary layers and universal distribution in boundary driven active systems
Authors: Pritha Dolai, Arghya Das
Abstract: We study non-interacting run-and-tumble particles (RTPs) in one dimension driven by particle reservoirs at the boundaries. Analytical results for the steady state and dynamics are obtained and new active features are observed. In steady state, a Seebeck-like effect is identified. The spatial and internal degrees of freedom, combined together, possess a symmetry, using which we found the eigenspectrum for large systems. The eigenvalues are arranged in two distinct bands. There is a crossover from system size-independent relaxation rate to the diffusive relaxation as the system size is increased. The time-dependent distribution is calculated and extended to the semi-infinite line. In the dynamics, a 'Milne length' emerges that depends non-trivially on diffusivity and other parameters. Notably, the large time distribution retains a strong and often dominant 'active' contribution in the bulk, implying that an effective passive-like description is inadequate. We report the existence of a 'kinetic boundary layer' both in the steady-state and time-dependent regime, which is a consequence of thermal diffusion. In the absorbing boundary problem, a novel universality is proposed when the particle is driven by short-ranged colored noise.

Paper number 27:
Title: Dephasing-induced jumps in non-Hermitian disordered lattices
Authors: Emmanouil T. Kokkinakis, Konstantinos G. Makris, Eleftherios N. Economou
Abstract: Changes in the wavefunction's phase during propagation in a random Hermitian lattice, a process known as dephasing, results in diffusion rather than Anderson localization. However, when non-Hermiticity is introduced, the wave behavior changes drastically. In particular, we demonstrate that in weakly disordered non-Hermitian lattices, dephasing induces unexpected eigenmode localization which results in abrupt jumps between spatially distant regions. These jumps, which are absent under purely coherent conditions, emerge from the interplay between complex disorder and dephasing.

Paper number 28:
Title: Chaotic Proliferation of Relativistic Domain Walls for Reservoir Computing
Authors: J. A. Vélez, M.-K. Lee, G. Tatara, P.-I. Gavriloaea, J. Ross, D. Laroze, U. Atxitia, R. F. L. Evans, R. W. Chantrell, M. Mochizuki, R. M. Otxoa
Abstract: Magnetic domain walls in antiferromagnets have been proposed as key components for faster conventional information processing, thanks to their enhanced stability and ultrafast propagation. However, how non-conventional computing methods like reservoir computing might take advantage of these properties remains an open question. In this work, we show how complex domain wall patterns can form through the proliferation of multiple domain walls from the energy stored in a single seed domain wall driven to move at a high speed close to the relativistic limit. We demonstrate that the resulting magnetic texture, consisting of up to hundreds of domain walls with an overall conserved topological charge as the initial seed domain wall, can possess chaotic spatiotemporal dynamics depending on the strength of staggered spin-orbit field induced via applied current. These findings allow us to design a multiple-domain-wall reservoir with high short-term memory and nonlinearity with respect to spin-orbit field inputs, that is suitable for ultrafast, energy-efficient, non-conventional reservoir computing.

Paper number 29:
Title: Subnanometric control of coupling between WS$_2$ monolayers with a molecular spacer
Authors: Sara A. Elrafei, Tom T. C. Sistermans, Alberto G. Curto
Abstract: Stacking monolayer semiconductors into heterostructures allows for control of their optical and electronic properties, offering advantages for nanoscale electronics, optoelectronics, and photonics. Specifically, adding a thin spacer between monolayers can yield bulk materials that retain interesting monolayer properties, such as a direct bandgap and a high emission quantum efficiency. The interaction mechanisms between monolayers, including interlayer coupling, charge transfer, and energy transfer, might be tuned through subnanometric control over the spacer thickness. Traditional spacer materials like bulk oxides or other layered materials can suffer from poor material interfaces or inhomogeneous thickness over large areas. Here, we use a spin-cast organic molecular spacer to adjust interlayer coupling in WS$_2$ monolayer stacks. We vary the molecular spacer thickness to tune the interlayer distance, significantly altering the optical properties of the resulting organic-inorganic heterostructures. Additionally, we demonstrate a dependence of the valence-band splitting on molecular spacer thickness manifested as a change in the energy difference between A and B excitons resulting from spin-orbit coupling and interlayer interactions. Our results illustrate the potential of molecular spacers to tailor the properties of monolayer heterostructures. This accessible approach opens new routes to advance atomically thin devices and could enable sensing technologies at the subnanometer scale.

Paper number 30:
Title: Magnetic Hofstadter cascade in a twisted semiconductor homobilayer
Authors: Benjamin A. Foutty, Aidan P. Reddy, Carlos R. Kometter, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Trithep Devakul, Benjamin E. Feldman
Abstract: Transition metal dichalcogenide moiré homobilayers have emerged as a platform in which magnetism, strong correlations, and topology are intertwined. In a large magnetic field, the energetic alignment of states with different spin in these systems is dictated by both strong Zeeman splitting and the structure of the Hofstadter's butterfly spectrum, yet the latter has been difficult to probe experimentally. Here we conduct local thermodynamic measurements of twisted WSe$_2$ homobilayers that reveal a cascade of magnetic phase transitions. We understand these transitions as the filling of individual Hofstadter subbands, allowing us to extract the structure and connectivity of the Hofstadter spectrum of a single spin. The onset of magnetic transitions is independent of twist angle, indicating that the exchange interactions of the component layers are only weakly modified by the moiré potential. In contrast, the magnetic transitions are associated with stark changes in the insulating states at commensurate filling. Our work achieves a spin-resolved measurement of Hofstadter's butterfly despite overlapping states, and it disentangles the role of material and moiré effects on the nature of the correlated ground states.

Paper number 31:
Title: Moduli spaces and breather dynamics of analytic solutions in chiral magnets without Heisenberg exchange interaction
Authors: Bruno Barton-Singer, Stefano Bolognesi, Sven Bjarke Gudnason, Roberto Menta
Abstract: We investigate the special case of the chiral magnet with vanishing Heisenberg exchange energy, whose axisymmetric Skyrmion solution has previously been found. The dynamical equations of this model look like inviscid fluid flow, and by investigating path-lines of this flow we can construct explicit static and dynamic solutions. We find an infinite-dimensional family of static Skyrmions that are related to the axisymmetric Skyrmion by co-ordinate transformations thus discovering a new moduli space, and further infinite-dimensional families of axisymmetric and non-axisymmetric breather-like supercompactons. We call the maps generating such moduli space "contour-preserving" maps.

Paper number 32:
Title: Designing Spin-driven Multiferroics in Altermagnets
Authors: Ranquan Cao, Ruizhi Dong, Ruixiang Fei, Yugui Yao
Abstract: Spin-driven multiferroics exhibit strong magnetoelectric coupling, with notable polarization changes under a magnetic field, but these effects are usually limited to high-Z magnetic insulators with low electronic polarization. In this work, we introduce altermagnets as a promising platform for achieving strong magnetoelectric coupling in low-Z systems with substantial polarization. This large polarization arises from a design principle that utilizes the Heisenberg-like exchange striction mechanism, eliminating the reliance on spin-orbit coupling (SOC). This approach enables the Kramers-degenerate antiferromagnetic phase derived from altermagnetic insulators to achieve substantial polarization without spin splitting, providing a flexible platform for regulating spin-splitting phenomena. Through first-principles simulations and an effective Landau-Ginzburg Hamiltonian, we demonstrate that materials in the LiMnO2 family and strained RuF4 family can achieve polarization values exceeding 1.0 {\mu}C/cm2, an order of magnitude larger than those found in SOC-driven multiferroics. Moreover, their magnetoelectric coupling is one to two orders of magnitude stronger than that observed in conventional multiferroics and those driven by SOC.

Paper number 33:
Title: Chemical Compositions of Soot Samples in Gold Electrode Capacitors: Molecular Simulations
Authors: Vitaly V. Chaban, Nadezhda A. Andreeva
Abstract: Electrical breakdown in a dielectric capacitor occurs when the electric field strength across the dielectric material exceeds its breakdown strength. A conductive channel through the dielectric emerges, resulting in a sudden surge of current. Self-healing represents a phenomenon of restoration of a capacitor's performance. The efficiency of self-healing depends on the products of high-temperature decomposition of the electrode and dielectric. We report atomistic simulations of the soot's chemical composition in the case of gold electrodes and four popular dielectric polymers: polypropylene (PP), polyethylene terephthalate (PET), polycarbonate (PC), and polyimide (PI). We unravel that gold atoms form clusters within the carbon-rich soot, limiting their interactions with non-metal elements. The oxygen atoms of PET, PC, and PI act as stabilizers of gold thanks to electrostatic attraction. Compared to zinc, gold equalizes the soot conductivity in all samples but does not impact polymer gasification. The suitability of dielectrics for self-healing must be rated based on the volatile by-products: PP > PC > PET > PI. Mind that PP issues three times more gases than PI. Therefore, the size of semiconducting soot is substantially smaller in the case of PP than in the case of PI. The obtained numerical results provide unprecedented physical insights into the phenomenon of self-healing and clearly drive the efforts to extend the lifespans of the metalized film capacitors.

Paper number 34:
Title: A Universal Method to Transform Aromatic Hydrocarbon Molecules into Confined Carbyne inside Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes
Authors: Yingzhi Chen, Kunpeng Tang, Wendi Zhang, Huiju Cao, Hongwei Zhang, Yanghao Feng, Weili Cui, Yuan Hu, Lei Shi, Guowei Yang
Abstract: Carbyne, a sp1-hybridized allotrope of carbon, is a linear carbon chain with exceptional theoretically predicted properties that surpass those of sp2-hybridized graphene and carbon nanotubes (CNTs). However, the existence of carbyne has been debated due to its instability caused by Peierls distortion, which limits its practical development. The only successful synthesis of carbyne has been achieved inside CNTs, resulting in a form known as confined carbyne (CC). However, CC can only be synthesized inside multi-walled CNTs, limiting its property-tuning capabilities to the inner tubes of the CNTs. Here, we present a universal method for synthesizing CC inside single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) with diameter of 0.9-1.3 nm. Aromatic hydrocarbon molecules are filled inside SWCNTs and subsequently transformed into CC under low-temperature annealing. A variety of aromatic hydrocarbon molecules are confirmed as effective precursors for formation of CC, with Raman frequencies centered around 1861 cm-1. Enriched (6,5) and (7,6) SWCNTs with diameters less than 0.8 nm are less effective than the SWCNTs with diameter of 0.9-1.3 nm for CC formation. Furthermore, resonance Raman spectroscopy reveals that optical band gap of the CC at 1861 cm-1 is 2.353 eV, which is consistent with the result obtained using a linear relationship between the Raman signal and optical band gap. This newly developed approach provides a versatile route for synthesizing CC from various precursor molecules inside diverse templates, which is not limited to SWCNTs but could extend to any templates with appropriate size, including molecular sieves, zeolites, boron nitride nanotubes, and metal-organic frameworks.

Paper number 35:
Title: Microscopic correlation between magnetostriction and magnetic damping
Authors: Ivan Kurniawan, Keita Ito, Takeshi Seki, Keisuke Masuda, Yoshio Miura
Abstract: Although the relationship between magnetostriction and magnetic damping is often described phenomenologically, their intrinsic connection remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that the magnitude of magnetic damping depends on the sign of magnetostriction in ($\mathrm{Fe_{1-x}Co_{x})_{4}N}$ and $\mathrm{Ni_{1-y}Co_{y}}$ alloys across various compositions, consistent with experimental observations. This behavior is attributed to strain-induced changes in exchange splitting, which shift the minority spin density of states near the Fermi level, thereby affecting both magnetostriction and damping through spin-conserving transitions. Additionally, the presence of locally degenerate orbitals plays a crucial role in determining magnetostriction. These findings suggest that magnetization dynamics and magnetostriction can be intrinsically controlled, facilitating the design of magnetic materials for applications such as flexible spintronics.

Paper number 36:
Title: Insulator and Electrode Materials Marginally Influence Carbonized Layer Conductivity in Metalized-Film Capacitors
Authors: Vitaly V. Chaban, Nadezhda Andreeva
Abstract: Capacitor self-healing is a generalized term to describe physical and chemical processes restoring the functionalities of a dielectric capacitor after an electrical breakdown. The efficacy of self-healing depends on the elemental composition of a metalized-film capacitor. We report atomistic simulations of self-healing from a chemical perspective proving the impossibility of tuning the electrical conductivity of the soot by finding an interplay of various polymers and electrodes. All investigated soot samples turn out to possess carbon-rich semiconducting skeletons with numerous unsaturated C-C covalent bonds. They exhibit electrical conductivities of the same order of magnitude, irrespective of initial chemical compositions and properties of the chosen insulating polymers. Upon reporting the new results, we discuss less evident approaches to diminish the soot conductivity. We conclude that the quality of capacitor self-healing can be assessed by counting gaseous by-products of electrical breakdown or evaluating the volume of the solid-state semiconducting counterpart.

Paper number 37:
Title: Machine learning the Renyi entropy of multiple disjoint intervals with neural networks
Authors: Han-Qing Shi, Hai-Qing Zhang
Abstract: Renyi entropy with multiple disjoint intervals are computed from the improved swapping operations by two methods: one is from the direct diagonalization of the Hamiltonian and the other one is from the state-of-the-art machine learning method with neural networks. We use the paradigmatic transverse-field Ising model in one-dimension to demonstrate the strategy of the improved swapping operation. In particular, we study the second Renyi entropy with two, three and four disjoint intervals. We find that the results from the above two methods match each other very well within errors, which indicates that the machine learning method is applicable for calculating the Renyi entropy with multiple disjoint intervals. Moreover, as the magnetic field increases, the Renyi entropy grows as well until the system arrives at the critical point of the phase transition. However, as the magnetic field exceeds the critical value, the Renyi entropy will decrease since the system enters the paramagnetic phase. Overall, these results match the theoretical predictions very well and demonstrate the high accuracy of the machine learning methods with neural networks.

Paper number 38:
Title: Efficient inverted HTL-free Sm$_2$NiMnO$_6$-based perovskite solar cell: a SCAPS-1D study
Authors: Nassim Mahammedi
Abstract: The transition to sustainable energy has accelerated research into perovskite solar cells (PSCs) as promising candidates for next-generation photovoltaics. Despite their remarkable efficiencies, the commercialization of PSCs is hindered by lead toxicity and material instability. In this study, we explore a lead-free Samarium-based double perovskite oxide Sm$_2$NiMnO$_6$ (SNMO), as the active absorber layer in an innovative inverted HTL-free PSC architecture. Using SCAPS-1D simulations, we optimized the device configuration to achieve a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 10.93% with an open-circuit voltage (VOC) of 0.8 V, a short-circuit current density (JSC) of 16.46 mA/cm2, and a fill factor (FF) of 82.14%. We demonstrate that increasing the SNMO absorber thickness enhances light harvesting in the red spectrum region (~620 nm), shifting the external quantum efficiency (EQE) peak from 380 nm at 50 nm thickness to about 620 nm at 1 um. We also investigated various electron transport layers (ETLs) and found that the indium tin oxide (ITO) exhibited superior PV performances, boosting the PCE to ~12.6% due to its excellent conductivity and optimal energy band alignment with SNMO. These findings establish SNMO as a promising absorber material for environmentally friendly PSCs, paving the way for cheaper, simpler, scalable, and sustainable photovoltaic solutions. This work highlights the potential of HTL-free architectures in reducing costs and complexities while maintaining competitive efficiencies, offering a significant step forward in advancing lead-free solar technologies.

Paper number 39:
Title: On the band topology of the breathing kagome lattice
Authors: Clara K. Geschner, Adam Yanis Chaou, Vatsal Dwivedi, Piet W. Brouwer
Abstract: A two-dimensional second-order topological insulator exhibits topologically protected zero-energy states at its corners. In the literature, the breathing kagome lattice with nearest-neighbor hopping is often mentioned as an example of a two-dimensional second-order topological insulator. Here we show by explicit construction that the corner states of the breathing kagome lattice can be removed by a continuous change of the hopping parameters, without breaking any of the model's symmetries, without closing bulk and boundary gaps, and without introducing hopping terms not present in the original model. Furthermore, we topologically classify all three-band lattice models with the same crystalline symmetries as the breathing kagome lattice and show that though none of the phases have protected zero-energy corner states, some of the phases are obstructed atomic limits which exhibit a filling anomaly.

Paper number 40:
Title: The electronic structure and disorder effect of La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_{7}$ superconductor
Authors: Yuxin Wang, Yi Zhang, Kun Jiang
Abstract: Determining the electronic structure of La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$ is an essential step towards uncovering their superconducting mechanism. It is widely believed that the bilayer apical oxygens play an important role in the bilayer La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$ electronic structure. Applying the hybrid exchange-correlation functionals, we obtain a more accurate electronic structure of La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$ at its high-pressure phase, where the binding $d_{z^2}$ band is below the Fermi level owing to apical oxygen. The symmetry properties of this electronic structure and its corresponding tight-binding model are further analyzed. We find the antisymmetric part is highly entangled leading to a minimal nearly degenerate two-orbital model. Then, the apical oxygen vacancies effect is studied using the dynamical cluster approximation. This disorder effect strongly destroys the antisymmetric $\beta$ Fermi surface leading to the possible disappearance of superconductivity.

Paper number 41:
Title: Origin of Pressure-Induced Structural Instability in CsPbX$_3$ Photovoltaic Perovskites
Authors: Sizhan Liu, Sandun Amarasinghe, Mo Li, Stella Chariton, Vitali Prakapenka, Sanjit K. Ghose, Yong Yan, Joshua Young, Trevor A. Tyson
Abstract: Under external stimuli, lead halide perovskites exhibit large atomic fluctuations, impacting optical and electron transport properties that affect device performance in operational settings. However, a thorough understanding of the atomic basis for the underlying structural instability is still absent. Focusing on the model material CsPbBr$_3$, the inherent lattice softness of halide perovskites is elucidated at the atomic level through in-situ single-crystal X-ray diffraction measurements under pressure complemented by atomic level simulations. We identify and explore the nature of the first-order phase transition to a distorted P21/c phase at 1.3 GPa, induced by the sudden Cs-Br bonds breaking. Unlike classical transition metal oxide perovskites, where the internal energy term dominates, we show explicitly that pressure primarily influences the Gibbs free energy for halide perovskites through the pressure-volume term. As such, strategically mitigating bond strains from volume shrinkage is the key to suppressing the first-order behavior for maintaining the coordinates of PbX$_6$ polyhedral upon external perturbation. Our thermodynamic calculation reveals the demand for high entropy in the -T*del-S term, which can be achieved by exploring a broader spectrum of doped A site and B sites in ABX$_3$ systems, enabling continuous structural changes that facilitate recovery from mechanical damage in practical applications.

Paper number 42:
Title: The balance between paraelectricity and ferroelectricity in non-chiral smectic homologs
Authors: Dorota Węgłowska, Michał Czerwiński, Robert Dzienisiewicz, Paweł Perkowski, Jadwiga Szydłowska, Damian Pociecha, Mateusz Mrukiewicz
Abstract: Non-chiral liquid crystals (LCs) exhibiting ferroelectricity, distinguished by their dynamic responsiveness to external stimuli and high spontaneous polarization, provide renewed impetus for research into this area of soft matter and open novel application possibilities. Consequently, identifying structural elements within LC compounds that promote ferroelectricity in non-chiral systems is of critical importance. In this work, two homologs of rod-like compounds, with phenyl and ester groups in the rigid core substituted by fluorine atoms, differing by a single methylene unit, were synthesized and comprehensively analyzed using complementary experimental techniques and quantum-mechanical modeling. This systematic study presents the first documented instance in which such a minimal structural modification markedly influences the polarity of smectic phases in two homologs, without substantially altering phase transition temperatures, particularly the sequence and temperature ranges of smectic and nematic phases. Additionally, findings reveal that the longer homolog, which exhibits paraelectric phases, demonstrates a pronounced capacity to maintain ferroelectric phases in mixtures. These results provide new insights into the critical structure-property relationships between molecular architecture and ferroelectric characteristics in LCs, facilitating the targeted design of non-chiral compounds with polar phases. Moreover, the properties of the studied mixtures underscore the potential to develop multicomponent LC mixtures with stable ferroelectric properties in a broad temperature range, a feature of considerable significance for practical applications.

Paper number 43:
Title: Entanglement as a topological marker in harmonically confined attractive Fermi-Hubbard chains
Authors: Marina Sanino, Isaac Carvalho, Vivian França
Abstract: We investigate the single-site von Neumann entropy along a harmonically confined superfluid chain, as described by the one-dimensional fermionic Hubbard model with strongly attractive interactions. We find that by increasing the confinement (or equivalently the particle filling) the system undergoes a quantum phase transition from a superfluid (SF) to a non-trivial topological insulator (TI) phase, which is characterized by an insulating bulk surrounded by highly entangled superfluid edges. These highly entangled states are found to be robust against perturbations and topologically protected by the particle-hole symmetry, which is locally preserved. We also find a semi-quantitative agreement between entanglement and superconducting order parameter profiles, confirming then that entanglement can be used as a topological marker and an order parameter in these systems. The charge gap not only confirms the SF-TI transition, but also shows that this transition is mediated by a metallic intermediate regime within the bulk. Using the gap we could depict a phase diagram for which the non-trivial topological insulator can be found in such harmonically confined attractive systems.

Paper number 44:
Title: Unraveling the temperature-dependent spin-polarized electron transport in iron via spin-wave Doppler shift
Authors: José Solano, Quentin Rossi, Jerome Robert, Marc Lenertz, Yves Henry, Benoit Gobaut, David Halley, Mattieu Bailleul
Abstract: An electric current flowing in a ferromagnetic metal carries spin angular momentum, i.e. it is spin-polarized. Here, we measure the spin-wave Doppler shift induced by the transfer of angular momentum from the diffusive spin-polarized electric current onto coherent spin waves in epitaxial MgO/Fe/MgO thin films. We follow this Doppler shift as function of the temperature and determine that the degree of spin-polarization of the current increases from 77$\%$ to 86$\%$ when cooling the device from 303K down to 10K. Interpreting these measurements within the two-current model, we separate the contributions from electron-surface, electron-phonon and electron-magnon scatterings to the spin-dependent resistivity of Fe.

Paper number 45:
Title: Mott and Wiedemann Franz Law for Monolayer Graphene for Different Scattering Mechanisms
Authors: Purnendu Ray, Kingshuk Sarkar
Abstract: In this study, we conducted a comprehensive review and analysis of the thermoelectric responses exhibited by monolayer pristine graphene in response to temperature variations. Employing the Boltzmann transport theory, we rigorously examined and evaluated various thermoelectric coefficients, with particular emphasis on elucidating their behavior under different scattering mechanisms. We derived the analytical expressions for electrical conductivity, thermopower, and thermal conductivity at low temperatures by Sommerfeld expansion of the Fermi integral. We demonstrated that our numerically obtained values are consistent with the analytical calculations at low temperatures and hence obeying Mott and Wiedeman Franz law. However, the deviation was observed at higher temperatures. Furthermore, we performed theoretical calculations of chemical potential at both low and high temperatures and compared them with our numerically evaluated results at all temperatures. Through extensive calculations and meticulous evaluation, our study contributes to a deeper understanding of the intricate thermoelectric properties inherent in monolayer pristine graphene.

Paper number 46:
Title: Kinetically arrested clusters in active filament arrays
Authors: Sonu Karayat, Prashant K. Purohit, L. Mahadevan, Arvind Gopinath, Raghunath Chelakkot
Abstract: We use Brownian dynamics simulations and theory to study the over-damped spatiotemporal dynamics and pattern formation in a fluid-permeated array of equally spaced, active, elastic filaments that are pinned at one end and free at the other. The filaments are modeled as connected colloidal chains with activity incorporated via compressive follower forces acting along the filament backbone. The length of the chains is smaller than the thermal persistence length. For a range of filament separation and activity values, we find that the filament array eventually self-assembles into a series of regularly spaced, kinetically arrested, compact clusters. Filament activity, geometry, elasticity, and grafting density are each seen to crucially influence the size, shape, and spacing of emergent clusters. Furthermore, cluster shapes for different grafting densities can be rescaled into self-similar forms with activity-dependent scaling exponents. We derive theoretical expressions that relate the number of filaments in a cluster and the spacing between clusters, to filament activity, filament elasticity, and grafting density. Our results provide insight into the physical mechanisms involved in the initiation of clustering and suggest that steric contact forces and friction balance active forces and filament elasticity to stabilize the clusters. Our simulations suggest design principles to realize filament-based clusters and similar self-assembling biomimetic materials using active colloids or synthetic microtubule-motor systems.

Paper number 47:
Title: Non-invertible SPTs: an on-site realization of (1+1)d anomaly-free fusion category symmetry
Authors: Chenqi Meng, Xinping Yang, Tian Lan, Zhengcheng Gu
Abstract: We investigate (1+1)d symmetry-protected topological (SPT) phases with fusion category symmetries. We emphasize that the UV description of an anomaly-free fusion category symmetry must include the fiber functor, giving rise to a local symmetry action, a charge category and a trivial phase. We construct an ``onsite'' matrix-product-operator (MPO) version of the Hopf algebra symmetry operators in a lattice model with tensor-product Hilbert space. In particular, we propose a systematic framework for classifying and constructing SPTs with non-invertible symmetries. An SPT phase corresponds to a Q-system in the charge category, such that the Q-system becomes a matrix algebra when the symmetry is forgotten. As an example, we provide an explicit microscopic realization of all three $\mathsf{Rep}^\dagger(D_8)$ SPT phases, including a trivial phase, and further demonstrate the $S_3$-duality among these three SPT phases.

Paper number 48:
Title: Chemical leaching of Al-Cu-Co decagonal quasicrystals
Authors: Shashank Shekhar Mishra, Thakur Prasad Yadav
Abstract: In the present investigation, the chemical leaching of the poly-grain Al65Cu15Co20 and Al65Cu20Co15 decagonal quasicrystalline alloy have been studied. The polished surfaces of as-cast alloys were leached with 10 mole NaOH solution for 0.5- 8 hours. The x-ray diffraction, scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy techniques have been used for structural and microstructural characterization. Energy dispersive x-ray analysis has been carried out for chemical composition analysis. Chemical leaching exclusively removes the Al from the surfaces of the Al65Cu15Co20 and Al65Cu20Co15 decagonal quasicrystalline alloys, consequently by the formation of porous structure containing nano size particles of Cu, Co and their oxides have been observed. Al65Cu15Co20 exhibits high porosity in comparison to Al65Cu20Co15 alloy, however the size of the precipitated nano-particles i.e. Cu, Co, Cu2O and CuO were smaller in the case of Al65Cu20Co15 alloy. The energy dispersive X-ray analysis mapping suggests homogeneous distribution of Cu and Co found on the leached surface and the presence of oxygen was also detected.

Paper number 49:
Title: Voltage laws in nanodomains revealed by asymptotics and simulations of electro-diffusion equations
Authors: Frédéric Paquin-Lefebvre, Alejandro Barea Moreno, David Holcman
Abstract: Characterizing the local voltage distribution within nanophysiological domains, driven by ionic currents through membrane channels, is crucial for studying cellular activity in modern biophysics, yet it presents significant experimental and theoretical challenges. Theoretically, the complexity arises from the difficulty of solving electro-diffusion equations in three-dimensional domains. Currently, there are no methods available for obtaining asymptotic computations or approximated solutions of nonlinear equations, and numerically, it is challenging to explore solutions across both small and large spatial scales. In this work, we develop a method to solve the Poisson-Nernst-Planck equations with ionic currents entering and exiting through two narrow, circular window channels located on the boundary. The inflow through the first window is composed of a single cation, while the outflow maintains a constant ionic density satisfying local electro-neutrality conditions. Employing regular expansions and Green's function representations, we derive the ionic profiles and voltage drops in both small and large charge regimes. We explore how local surface curvature and window channels size influence voltage dynamics and validate our theoretical predictions through numerical simulations, assessing the accuracy of our asymptotic computations. These novel relationships between current, voltage, concentrations and geometry can enhance the characterization of physiological behaviors of nanodomains.

Paper number 50:
Title: Crossover of Critical Behavior in Dynamic Phase Transitions of Ferromagnetic Thin Films
Authors: Erol Vatansever, Mikel Quintana, Andreas Berger
Abstract: We investigate the crossover of critical behavior for the dynamic phase transition (DPT) in ferromagnetic thin films using Monte Carlo simulations of the kinetic Ising model, focusing on the scaling behavior of the dynamic order parameter under a time-dependent external magnetic field. Specifically, we study the transition of the critical behavior of such film systems from two-dimensional (2D) to three-dimensional (3D) as a function of the film thickness and the distance to the critical point, which enables dimensional crossover observations. Our results indicate that the effective critical exponents exhibit a clear transition in their scaling behavior, with thinner films showing 2D-like characteristics and thicker films displaying 3D-like behavior, for both the DPT and the thermodynamic phase transitions (TPT). Quantitatively, the crossover from 2D to 3D behavior occurs at larger film thicknesses for the DPT compared to the TPT, suggesting that DPT and TPT are governed by distinctly different length scales and underlying surface effects. These findings are in agreement with experimental observations in ultrathin Co films, where dynamic and thermodynamic critical exponents were found to differ. Therefore, our study provides an in-depth explanation for critical phenomena in thin-film ferromagnets driven by a time-dependent magnetic field. By comparing the dimensional crossover properties of both TPT and DPT, we present a comprehensive understanding of how thin-film geometry and surface effects influence the scaling laws and critical behavior in nonequilibrium systems.

Paper number 51:
Title: External field induced metal-to-insulator transition in dissipative Hubbard model
Authors: Beomjoon Goh, Junwon Kim, Hongchul Choi, Ji Hoon Shim
Abstract: In this work, we develop a non-equilibrium steady-state non-crossing approximation (NESS-NCA) impurity solver applicable to general impurity problems. The choice of the NCA as the impurity solver enables both a more accurate description of correlation effects with larger Coulomb interaction and scalability to multi-orbital systems. Based on this development, we investigate strongly correlated non-equilibrium states of a dissipative lattice system under constant electric fields. Both the electronic Coulomb interaction and the electric field are treated non-perturbatively using dynamical mean-field theory in its non-equilibrium steady-state form (NESS-DMFT) with the NESS-NCA impurity solver. We validate our implementation using a half-filled single-band Hubbard model attached to a fictitious free Fermion reservoir, which prevents temperature divergence. As a result, we identify metallic and insulating phases as functions of the electric field and the Coulomb interaction along with a phase coexistence region amid the metal-to-insulator transition (MIT). We find that the MIT driven by the electric field is qualitatively similar to the equilibrium MIT as a function of temperature, differing from results in previous studies using the iterative perturbation theory (IPT) impurity solver. Finally, we highlight the importance of the morphology of a correlated system under the influence of an electric field.

Paper number 52:
Title: Phonon-Induced Effects in Quantum Dot Absorption and Resonance Fluorescence with Hierarchy of Pure States
Authors: Sebastian Toivonen, Kimmo Luoma
Abstract: We investigate a quantum dot (QD) system coupled to a vibrational environment with a super-Ohmic spectral density and weakly to a leaky cavity mode, a model relevant for semiconductor-based single-photon sources. The phonon coupling induces dephasing and broadens the absorption and emission line shapes, while the weakly coupled cavity mode leads to effective driving of the QD. To capture non-Markovian effects, we use non-Markovian Quantum State Diffusion and its hierarchical extension the Hierarchy of Pure States to compute multitime correlation functions underlying absorption and resonance fluorescence spectra. We present numerical results for the absorption spectra at strong phonon coupling and finite temperature, as well as for resonance fluorescence spectra at varying phonon coupling strengths and temperatures, and analyse the visibility of the resonance fluorescence spectra to provide insights into how phonon coupling and thermal effects influence the spectral features.

Paper number 53:
Title: Color symmetry and ferromagnetism in Potts spin glass
Authors: Hong-Bin Chen
Abstract: We consider the Potts spin glass with additional ferromagnetic interaction parametrized by $t$. It has long been observed that the Potts color symmetry breaking for the spin glass order parameter is closely related to the ferromagnetic phase transition. To clarify this, we identify a single critical value $t_\mathrm{c}$, which marks the onset of both color symmetry breaking and the transition to ferromagnetism.

Paper number 54:
Title: Theory of Valley Splitting in Si/SiGe Spin-Qubits: Interplay of Strain, Resonances and Random Alloy Disorder
Authors: Abel Thayil, Lasse Ermoneit, Markus Kantner
Abstract: Electron spin-qubits in silicon-germanium (SiGe) heterostructures are a major candidate for the realization of scalable quantum computers. A critical challenge in strained Si/SiGe quantum wells (QWs) is the existence of two nearly degenerate valley states at the conduction band minimum that can lead to leakage of quantum information. To address this issue, various strategies have been explored to enhance the valley splitting (i.e., the energy gap between the two low-energy conduction band minima), such as sharp interfaces, oscillating germanium concentrations in the QW and shear strain engineering. In this work, we develop a comprehensive envelope-function theory augmented by the empirical pseudopotential method to incorporate the effects of alloy disorder, strain, and non-trivial resonances arising from interaction between valley states across different Brillouin zones. We apply our model to analyze common epitaxial profiles studied in the literature and compare our results with previous work. This framework provides an efficient tool for quantifying the interplay of these effects on the valley splitting, enabling complex epitaxial profile optimization in future work.

Paper number 55:
Title: Microscopic theory of pair density waves in spin-orbit coupled Kondo lattice
Authors: Aaditya Panigrahi, Alexei Tsvelik, Piers Coleman
Abstract: We demonstrate that the discommensuration between the Fermi surfaces of a conduction sea and an underlying spin liquid provides a natural mechanism for the spontaneous formation of pair density waves. Using a recent formulation of the Kondo lattice model which incorporates a Yao Lee spin liquid proposed by the authors, we demonstrate that doping away from half-filling induces finite-momentum electron-Majorana pair condensation, resulting in amplitude-modulated PDWs. Our approach provides a precise, analytically tractable pathway for understanding the spontaneous formation of PDWs in higher dimensions and offers a natural mechanism for PDW formation in the absence of a Zeeman field.

Paper number 56:
Title: Dynamic transition of the generalized Jaynes-Cummings model: multi-particles and inter-particle interaction effects
Authors: Wen Liang, Zhenhua Yu
Abstract: How environments affect dynamics of quantum systems remains a central question in understanding transitions between quantum and classical phenomena and optimizing quantum technologies. A paradigm model to address the above question is the generalized Jaynes-Cummings model, in which a two-level particle is coupled to its environment modeled by a continuum boson modes. Previous analytic solution shows that, starting from the initial state that the particle is in its excited state and the boson modes in their vacuum state, the time evolution of the probability that the particle occupies the excited state exhibits a dynamic transition as the system-environment coupling varies; when the coupling is weak, the probability decays to zero monotonically, while a finite weight of the particle is localized in the excited state when the coupling is sufficiently strong. Here, we study the dynamic transition for the case that $N$ particles are initially excited with the boson modes in their vacuum state. In particular, we access the effects of an all to all Ising type interaction we introduce between the particles. Our calculation is carried out by the non-perturbative time-dependent numerical renormalization group method. We find that the critical coupling for the transition decreases with $N$, and is suppressed (enlarged) by the anti-ferromagnetic (ferromagnetic) Ising interaction. Our results enrich understanding on environmental effects on interacting quantum systems.

Paper number 57:
Title: Atomic layer etching of SiO2 using sequential SF6 gas and Ar plasma
Authors: Jun Peng, Rakshith Venugopal, Robert Blick, Robert Zierold
Abstract: In the relentless pursuit of advancing semiconductor technologies, the demand for atomic layer processes has given rise to innovative processes, which have already played a significant role in the continued miniaturization features. Among these, atomic layer etching (ALE) is gaining increasing attention, offering precise control over material removal at the atomic level. Despite some thermal ALE achieved sub-nm etching controllability, the currently practical ALE processes that involve plasmas steps often suffer from high etch rates due to the scarcity of highly synergistic ALE half-reactions. To overcome this limitation, we developed an ALE process of silicon dioxide (SiO2) on a silicon wafer using sequential pure sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) gas exposure and argon (Ar) plasma etching near room temperature, achieving a stable and consistent etching rate of approximately 1.4 Å/cycle. In this process, neither of the two half-cycle reactions alone produces etching effects, and etching only occurs when the two are repeated in sequence, which means a 100% synergy. The identification of temperature and plasma power windows further substantiates the high synergy of our ALE process. Moreover, detailed morphology characterization over multiple cycles reveals a directional etching effect. This study provides a reliable, reproducible, and highly controllable ALE process for SiO2 etching, which is promising for nanofabrication processes.

Paper number 58:
Title: Odd dynamics of passive objects in a chiral active bath
Authors: Cory Hargus, Federico Ghimenti, Julien Tailleur, Frédéric van Wijland
Abstract: When submerged in a chiral active bath, a passive object becomes a spinning ratchet imbued with odd transport properties. In the adiabatic limit of a massive object, we derive the most general Langevin dynamics for a rigid body in a chiral active bath, with odd diffusion and odd mobility connected by an Einstein relation, and numerically explore the breakdown of these predictions beyond the adiabatic limit. We show that the irreversibility of a massive object increases as its symmetry decreases: a disk exhibits an effective equilibrium dynamics, while a rod admits distinct translational and rotational temperatures, and a wedge is fully out of equilibrium. Conversely, this departure from equilibrium can be read in the universal far-field currents and density modulations of the bath, which we measure numerically and derive analytically.

Paper number 59:
Title: Infinite variety of thermodynamic speed limits with general activities
Authors: Ryuna Nagayama, Kohei Yoshimura, Sosuke Ito
Abstract: Activity, which represents the kinetic property of dynamics, plays a central role in obtaining thermodynamic speed limits (TSLs). In this paper, we discuss a unified framework that provides the existing TSLs based on different activities such as dynamical activity and dynamical state mobility. We also derive an infinite variety of TSLs for Markov jump processes and deterministic chemical reaction networks by using different activities defined by the generalized means. The lower bound on the entropy production given by each TSL provides the minimum dissipation achievable by a conservative force. We numerically and analytically discuss the tightness of the lower bounds on the EPR in the various TSLs.

Paper number 60:
Title: Effect of disorder on the strain-tuned charge density wave multicriticality in Pd$_x$ErTe$_3$
Authors: Anisha G. Singh, Matthew Krogstad, Maja D. Bachmann, Paul Thompson, Stephan Rosenkranz, Ray Osborn, Alan Fang, Aharon Kapitulnik, Jong Woo Kim, Philip J. Ryan, Steven A. Kivelson, Ian R. Fisher
Abstract: We explore, through a combination of x-ray diffraction and elastoresistivity measurements, the effect of disorder on the strain-tuned charge density wave and associated multicriticality in Pd$_x$ErTe$_3$ (x = 0, 0.01, 0.02 and 0.026). We focus particularly on the behavior near the strain-tuned bicritical point that occurs in pristine ErTe$_3$ (x=0). Our study reveals that while Pd intercalation somewhat broadens the signatures of the CDW phase transitions, the line of first-order transitions at which the CDW reorients as a function of applied strain persists in the presence of disorder and still seemingly terminates at a critical point. The critical point occurs at a lower temperature and a lower strain compared to pristine ErTe$_3$. Similarly, the nematic elastoresistance of Pd$_x$ErTe$_3$, though suppressed in magnitude and broadened relative to that of ErTe$_3$, has a markedly more symmetric response around the critical point. These observations point to disorder driving a reduction in the system's electronic orthorhombicity even while the material remains irrevocably orthorhombic due to the presence of a glide plane in the crystal structure. Disorder, it would appear, reinforces the emergence of a "pseudo-tetragonal" electronic response in this fundamentally orthorhombic material.

Paper number 61:
Title: Magnetic excitations and interactions in the Weyl ferrimagnet NdAlSi
Authors: Chris J. Lygouras, Hung-Yu Yang, Xiaohan Yao, Jonathan Gaudet, Yiqing Hao, Huibo Cao, Jose A. Rodriguez-Rivera, Andrey Podlesnyak, Stefan Blügel, Predrag Nikolić, Fazel Tafti, Collin L. Broholm
Abstract: Weyl fermions can arise from time-reversal symmetry-breaking magnetism, but their impact on magnetic order is a source of ongoing research. Using high-precision neutron diffraction and spectroscopy, we present a comprehensive exploration of the magnetic structure and excitation spectrum of Weyl semimetal and helical magnet NdAlSi. We use Luttinger-Tisza, classical mean-field, and random-phase approximation techniques to model the dispersive crystal field excitons. We find extended-ranged and sign-changing interactions, suggesting a coupling between conduction electrons and the local moments. We demonstrate that low-symmetry anisotropic Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interactions, in contrast with higher-symmetry interactions enabled by Weyl fermions, play an important role in stabilizing the complex spin spiral ground state of NdAlSi. Our work provides a first detailed view of microscopic interactions in a Weyl magnet, and constrains the role of Weyl electrons and their chirality on the spiral magnetism.

Paper number 62:
Title: Spin-orbit torque in a three-fold-symmetric bilayer and its effect on magnetization dynamics
Authors: Wuzhang Fang, Edward Schwartz, Alexey A. Kovalev, K. D. Belashchenko
Abstract: Field-free switching of perpendicular magnetization has been observed in an epitaxial L1$_1$-ordered CoPt/CuPt bilayer and attributed to spin-orbit torque (SOT) arising from the crystallographic $3m$ point group of the interface. Using a first-principles nonequilibrium Green's function formalism combined with the Anderson disorder model, we calculate the angular dependence of the SOT in a CoPt/CuPt bilayer and find that the magnitude of the $3m$ SOT is about 20% of the conventional dampinglike SOT. We further study the magnetization dynamics in perpendicularly magnetized films in the presence of $3m$ SOT and Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction, using the equations of motion for domain wall dynamics and micromagnetic simulations. We find that for systems with strong interfacial DMI characterized by the Néel character of domain walls, a very large current density is required to achieve deterministic switching because reorientation of the magnetization inside the domain wall is necessary to induce the switching asymmetry. For thicker films with relatively weak interfacial DMI and the Bloch character of domain walls the deterministic switching with much smaller currents is possible, which agrees with recent experimental findings.

Paper number 63:
Title: Response of superfluid fermions at finite temperature
Authors: Sumit Bhattacharjee, Elena Litvinova
Abstract: A consistent finite-temperature microscopic theory for the response of strongly coupled superfluid fermionic systems is formulated. We start from the general many-body Hamiltonian with the vacuum (bare) two-fermion interaction and derive the equation of motion (EOM) for the thermally averaged two-time two-fermion correlation function, which determines the spectrum of the system under study. The superfluidity is introduced via the Bogoliubov transformation of the fermionic field operators, and the entire formalism is carried out in the basis of Bogoliubov's quasiparticles, keeping the complete $4\times 4$ block matrix structure of the two-fermion EOM. Static and dynamical interaction kernels of the resulting EOM are discussed. The least correlated static kernel reproduces the known finite-temperature quasiparticle random phase approximation, while the dynamical kernel was previously largely unknown in the finite-temperature superfluid theory. The major focus is then placed on the latter kernel, which is completed and advanced to a factorized form, enabling a minimal truncation of the many-body problem with keeping important effects of emergent collectivity and mapping to the quasiparticle-vibration coupling (qPVC). As in the zero-temperature and non-superfluid cases, the qPVC can be associated with a new order parameter, qPVC vertex. In the thermal superfluid theory, the latter vertex as well as the components of the dynamical kernel acquire an extended form including thermally unblocked transition amplitudes.

Paper number 64:
Title: Symmetry-enforced minimal entanglement and correlation in quantum spin chains
Authors: Kangle Li, Liujun Zou
Abstract: The interplay between symmetry, entanglement and correlation is an interesting and important topic in quantum many-body physics. Within the framework of matrix product states, in this paper we study the minimal entanglement and correlation enforced by the $SO(3)$ spin rotation symmetry and lattice translation symmetry in a quantum spin-$J$ chain, with $J$ a positive integer. When neither symmetry is spontaneously broken, for a sufficiently long segment in a sufficiently large closed chain, we find that the minimal Rényi-$\alpha$ entropy compatible with these symmetries is $\min\{ -\frac{2}{\alpha-1}\ln(\frac{1}{2^\alpha}({1+\frac{1}{(2J+1)^{\alpha-1}}})), 2\ln(J+1) \}$, for any $\alpha\in\mathbb{R}^+$. In an infinitely long open chain with such symmetries, for any $\alpha\in\mathbb{R}^+$ the minimal Rényi-$\alpha$ entropy of half of the system is $\min\{ -\frac{1}{\alpha-1}\ln(\frac{1}{2^\alpha}({1+\frac{1}{(2J+1)^{\alpha-1}}})), \ln(J+1) \}$. When $\alpha\rightarrow 1$, these lower bounds give the symmetry-enforced minimal von Neumann entropies in these setups. Moreover, we show that no state in a quantum spin-$J$ chain with these symmetries can have a vanishing correlation length. Interestingly, the states with the minimal entanglement may not be a state with the minimal correlation length.

Paper number 65:
Title: The Smearing of Quasi-Particles: Signatures in the Entanglement Entropy of Excited Many-Particle Systems
Authors: Jagannath Sutradhar, Jonathan Ruhman, Avraham Klein, Dimitri Gutman, Richard Berkovits
Abstract: The entanglement spectrum serves as a powerful tool for probing the structure and dynamics of quantum many-body systems, revealing key information about symmetry, topology, and excitations. While the entanglement entropy (EE) of ground states typically follows an area law, highly excited states obey a volume law, leading to a striking contrast in their scaling behavior. In this paper, we investigate the crossover between these two regimes, focusing on the role of quasi-particles (QPs) in mediating this transition. By analyzing the energy dependence of EE in various many-body systems, we explore how the presence of long-lived QPs influences the entanglement structure of excited states. We present numerical results for spinless fermions, a spin chain near a many-body localization transition, and the Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev (SYK) model, which lacks a conventional QP description. Our findings are complemented by a theoretical model based on Fermi liquid theory, providing insight into the interaction-dependent scaling of EE and its consistency with numerical simulations. We find that a hallmark of QPs is a linear dependence of the eigenstate EE on energy, which breaks down at high energy and in the limit of strong interaction. The slope of this linear dependence reflects the QP weight, which reduces with interaction strength.

Paper number 66:
Title: Lorentz Transformation of the Energy Spectrum of the Equilibrium State of Massive Free Fields
Authors: Ruohan Xu, Tingzhang Shi, H. T. Quan
Abstract: In previous studies of relativistic thermodynamics, the temperature of a static system, as perceived by a moving observer, has traditionally been treated as a scalar. This assumption has also been extended to the research on the cosmic microwave background. However, the validity of this assumption is a consequence of the massless nature of photons. More generally, when an observer is in relative motion to a system, the thermal equilibrium state is characterized by a four-vector temperature. In this paper, we study the non-interacting massive Bosonic and Fermionic field systems. We derive the Lorentz transformation of the energy spectral density in the equilibrium state of these fields. In the massless limit for bosonic field, our results recover the transformation of black body radiation [G. W. Ford and R. F. O' Connell., Phys. Rev. E, 88, 044101(2013)], which corresponds to a scalar temperature with dipole anisotropy. For the massive fields, the moving equilibrium state cannot be characterized by a corresponding scalar temperature. This result shows the necessity of introducing four-vector temperature in relativistic thermodynamics.

Paper number 67:
Title: Universality of Top Rank Statistics for Brownian Reshuffling
Authors: Zdzislaw Burda, Mario Kieburg
Abstract: We study the dynamical aspects of the top rank statistics of particles, performing Brownian motions on a half-line, which are ranked by their distance from the origin. For this purpose, we introduce an observable that we call the overlap ratio $\Omega(t)$, whose average is the probability that a particle that is on the top-$n$ list at some time will also be on the top-$n$ list after time $t$. The overlap ratio is a local observable which is concentrated at the top of the ranking and does not require the full ranking of all particles. It is simple to measure in practice. We derive an analytical formula for the average overlap ratio for a system of $N$ particles in the stationary state that undergo independent Brownian motion on the positive real half-axis with a reflecting wall at the origin and a drift towards the wall. In particular, we show that for $N\rightarrow \infty$, the overlap ratio takes a rather simple form $\langle \Omega(t)\rangle = {\rm erfc}(a \sqrt{t})$ for $n\gg 1$ with some scaling parameter $a>0$. This result is a very good approximation even for moderate sizes of the top-$n$ list such as $n=10$. Moreover, as we show, the overlap ratio exhibits universal behavior observed in many dynamical systems including geometric Brownian motion, Brownian motion with a position-dependent drift and a soft barrier on one side, the Bouchaud-Mézard wealth distribution model, and Kesten processes.

Paper number 68:
Title: High-pressure growth effects on the superconducting properties of Sm-based oxypnictide superconductors
Authors: Mohammad Azam, Manasa Manasa, Tatiana Zajarniuk, Ryszard Diduszko, Taras Palasyuk, Tomasz Cetner, Andrzej Morawski, Cezariusz Jastrzębski, Andrzej Szewczyk, Michał Wierzbicki, Shiv J. Singh
Abstract: High-pressure synthesis can be an effective method for improving the sample quality of materials as well as their superconducting properties. In this paper, the synthesis process of F- doped SmFeAsO has been optimized by preparing a series of bulk SmFeAsO0.8F0.2 (Sm1111) using the high gas pressure and high-temperature synthesis (HP-HTS) method, considering various growth parameters like growth pressures (0-1 GPa) and heating time (0.5-2 h). Structural, microstructural, Raman spectroscopic, transport, and magnetic measurements are employed to comprehensively analyze these bulks and derive the conclusive findings. The parent SmFeAsO0.8F0.2 prepared by the conventional synthesis process at ambient pressure (CSP) has a transition temperature (Tc) of around 53-54 K, and the critical current density (Jc) of 103 A/cm2 at 5 K with a small amount of the impurity phases (SmOF and SmAs), consistent with previous reports. Interestingly, all bulks synthesized by HP-HTS have almost the same Tc and Jc as the parent sample. The optimal growth conditions are obtained as 900C, 1 hour, and 0.5 GPa with the sealed Ta-tube, which slightly improved the sample quality and the superconducting properties compared to other bulks grown by HP-HTS. Our study confirms that the existence of the impurity phases in the 1111 family is very robust and cannot be reduced by HP-HTS, leading to only a small variation in the observed superconducting properties of Sm1111 whether prepared by CSP or HP-HTS. This is the first comprehensive investigation of the high-pressure development of Sm1111, which shows distinct behaviour from other families of iron-based superconductors.

Paper number 69:
Title: Ising phase transitions and thermodynamics of correlated fermions in a 2D spin-dependent optical lattice
Authors: Zhuotao Xie, Yu-Feng Song, Yuan-Yao He
Abstract: We present a {\it numerically exact} study of the Hubbard model with spin-dependent anisotropic hopping on the square lattice using auxiliary-field quantum Monte Carlo method. At half-filling, the system undergoes Ising phase transitions upon cooling, leading to the formation of Ising-type antiferromagnetic order for repulsive interactions and charge density wave order for attractive interactions at finite temperatures. By elegantly implementing the sign-problem-free condition and Hubbard-Stratonovich transformations, we achieve significant improvements in precision control of the numerical calculations, and obtain highly accurate results of the transition temperatures from weak to strong interactions across representative anisotropies. We further characterize the system by examining the temperature dependence of various thermodynamic properties, including the energy, double occupancy, specific heat and charge susceptibility. Specifically, we provide unbiased numerical results of the entropy map on temperature-interaction plane, the critical entropy, and the spin, singlon and doublon correlations, all of which are directly measurable in optical lattice experiments. Away from half-filling, we explore the behavior of the sign problem and investigate the possible emergence of stripe spin-density wave order in the system with repulsive interaction.

Paper number 70:
Title: Cascades in transport and optical conductivity of Twisted Bilayer Graphene
Authors: M.J. Calderón, A. Camjayi, A. Datta, E. Bascones
Abstract: Using a combined Dynamical Mean Field Theory and Hartree (DMFT+H) calculation we study the transport and optical properties of the 8-band heavy fermion model for Twisted Bilayer Graphene (TBG) in the normal state. We find resistive states around integer fillings which resemble the ones observed in transport experiments. From a Drude fitting of the low frequency optical conductivity, we extract a very strongly doping-dependent Drude weight and scattering rate, resetting at the integers. For most dopings, particularly above the integers, the Drude scattering rate is high but notably smaller than that of the local electrons. This highlights the important role of itinerant electrons in the transport properties, despite their limited spectral weight on the flat bands. At far infrared frequencies, the optical conductivity exhibits cascades characterized by highly asymmetric resets of the intensity and oscillations in the interband peak frequencies.

Paper number 71:
Title: Trimeron ordering, bandgap and polaron hopping in magnetite
Authors: Nikita Fominykh, Vladimir Stegailov
Abstract: In this work, we apply the DFT+U approach for a detailed ab initio study of the refined structure of the low-temperature phase of magnetite [M. S. Senn et al., Nature 481, 173 (2012)]. We compare the electronic properties of this structure and several alternatives with respect to the presence of trimeron ordering and the bandgap properties. The connection of the trimeron arrangement with site-selective doping of magnetite is discussed. Calculations of the polaron hopping energy allow us to make one step forward toward understanding the complex interplay of polaronic and bandgap contributions to electronic properties of the magnetite.

Paper number 72:
Title: Unsupervised Classification of Non-Hermitian Topological Phases under Symmetries
Authors: Yang Long, Haoran Xue, Baile Zhang
Abstract: The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) into fundamental science has opened new possibilities to address long-standing scientific challenges rooted in mathematical limitations. For example, topological invariants are used to characterize topology, but there is no universally applicable one. This limitation explains why, in the past decades-long classification of topological phases of matter -- mainly focused on Hermitian systems -- many phases initially classified ``trivial" were later identified as topological. Recently, the discovery of non-Hermitian band topology has spurred substantial efforts in non-Hermitian topological classification, including the development of new topological invariants. However, such classifications similarly risk overlooking key topological features. Here, without relying on any topological invariant, we develop an AI-based unsupervised classification of symmetry-protected non-Hermitian topological phases. This algorithm distinguishes topological differences among non-Hermitian Hamiltonians with symmetries, and constructs, in an unsupervised manner, a topological periodic table for non-Hermitian systems. Additionally, it can account for the boundary effects, enabling the exploration of open-boundary effects on the topological phase diagram. These results introduce an unsupervised approach for classifying symmetry-protected non-Hermitian topological phases without omission and provide valuable guidance for the development of theories and experiments.

Paper number 73:
Title: A Hidden Quantum Paraelectric Phase in SrTiO3 Induced by Terahertz Field
Authors: Wei Li, Hanbyul Kim, Xinbo Wang, Jianlin Luo, Simone Latini, Dongbin Shin, Jun-Ming Liu, Jing-Feng Li, Angel Rubio, Ce-Wen Nan, Qian Li
Abstract: Coherent manipulation of lattice vibrations using ultrafast light pulses enables access to nonequilibrium 'hidden' phases with designed functionalities in quantum materials. However, expanding the understanding of nonlinear light-phonon interaction mechanisms remains crucial for developing new strategies. Here, we report re-entrant ultrafast phase transitions in SrTiO3 driven by intense terahertz excitation. As the terahertz field increases, the system transitions from the quantum paraelectric (QPE) ground state to an intermediate ferroelectric phase, and then unexpectedly reverts to a QPE state above ~500 kV/cm. The latter hidden QPE phase exhibits distinct lattice dynamics compared to the initial phases, highlighting activated antiferrodistortive phonon modes. Aided by first-principles dynamical calculations, we identify the mechanism for these complex behaviors as a superposition of multiple coherently excited eigenstates of the polar soft mode. Our results reveal a previously uncharted quantum facet of SrTiO3 and open pathways for harnessing high-order excitations to engineer quantum materials in the ultrafast regime.

Paper number 74:
Title: Phase transition of Kitaev spin liquid described by quantum geometric tensor
Authors: Meng-Meng Lu, Zheng-Chuan Wang
Abstract: Weinvestigate the topological phase transition of Kitaev spin liquid in an external magnetic field by calculating the Berry curvature and the Fubini-Study metric. Employing Jordan-Wigner transformation and effective perturbative theory to transform the Hamiltonian into fermionic quadratic form, the Berry curvature is calculated by choosing the effective magnetic field as the parameter, and we find that the xy-component of the Berry curvature has the same behavior around the critical lines with the phase diagram and the behavior of Berry curvature around the critical line will not be influenced by local perturbation, i.e. it has the robustness against the local perturbation. Especially, we relate the Berry curvature with the derivative of effective magnetic susceptibility which can be regarded as the signature of topological phase transition besides, we related the second nonlinear susceptibility with the non-Abelian Berry connection. Then we analytically calculate the generalized Berry curvature in the mixed state called mean Uhlmann curvature which can be related with the spectral function, the curves that mean Uhlmanncurvaturechangingtemperaturewithdifferentcouplingconstant reveal that it will have an extrema when adjust $J_x$ from $A$ phase to $B$ phase. At last we analytically calculate the quantum geometric tensor in the effective magnetic field space whose imaginary part is the Berry curvature and real part is the Fubini-Study metric, and we find that the zz-component of Fubini-Study metric and the phase diagram are highly correlated which will peak at the cross point of three phases, then the Fubini-Study metric is extended to the finite temperature with arising an additional term called Fisher-Rao metric caused by mixed state.

Paper number 75:
Title: The global critical current effect of superconductivity
Authors: Heng Wu, Yaojia Wang, Mazhar N. Ali
Abstract: Superconductivity has been investigated for over a century, but there are still open questions about what determines the critical current; the maximum current a superconductor can carry before switching to its normal state. For a given superconductor, the zero-field critical current is widely believed to be determined by its inherent properties and be related to its critical magnetic field. Here, by studying superconducting polycrystalline films, single crystal flakes, and layered heterostructures, we find that the critical current of a superconductor can vary with measurement configuration. It can be influenced, or even determined, by adjacent superconducting segments along the applied current trajectory, whereas the critical magnetic field and critical temperature remain unaffected. This global critical current effect both reveals the need to revisit fundamental theory describing superconductivity, as well as implies that superconductors can transfer critical current related properties to each other. We demonstrate this by designing and fabricating a simple superconducting structure that transferred a superconducting diode effect from one segment to another segment which could not manifest the effect on its own. This observation merits a reconsideration of contemporary superconducting circuit design, and developing a full understanding will lead to a new paradigm of superconducting electronics.

Paper number 76:
Title: Effects of alternating interactions and boundary conditions on quantum entanglement of three-leg Heisenberg ladder
Authors: Qinghui Li, Lizhen Hu, Panpan Zhang, Chuanzheng Miao, Yuliang Xu, Zhongqiang Liu, Xiangmu Kong
Abstract: The spin-12 three-leg antiferromagnetic Heisenberg spin ladder is studied under open boundary condition (OBC) and cylinder boundary condition (CBC), using the density matrix renormalization group and matrix product state methods, respectively. Specifically, we calculate the energy density, entanglement entropy, and concurrence while discussing the effects of interleg interaction J2 and the alternating coupling parameter gamma on these quantities. It is found that the introduction of gamma can completely reverse the concurrence distribution between odd and even bonds. Under CBC, the generation of the interleg concurrence is inhibited when gamma=0, and the introduction of gamma can cause interleg concurrence between chains 1 and 3, in which the behavior is more complicated due to the competition between CBC and gamma. Additionally, we find that gamma induces two types of long-distance entanglement (LDE) in the system under OBC: intraleg LDE and inter-leg one. When the system size is sufficiently large, both types of LDE reach similar strength and stabilize at a constant value. The study indicates that the three-leg ladder makes it easier to generate LDE compared with the two-leg system. However, the generation of LDE is inhibited under CBC which the spin frustration exists. In addition, the calculated results of energy, entanglement entropy and concurrence all show that there are essential relations between these quantities and phase transitions of the system. Further, we predict a phase transition point near gamma=0.54 under OBC. The present study provides valuable insights into understanding the phase diagram of this class of systems.

Paper number 77:
Title: Electrical switching of altermagnetism
Authors: Yiyuan Chen, Xiaoxiong Liu, Hai-Zhou Lu, X. C. Xie
Abstract: Switching magnetism using only electricity is of great significance for information applications but remains challenging. We find that, altermagnetism, as a newly discovered unconventional magnetism, may open an avenue along this effort. Specifically, to have deterministic switching, i.e., reversing current direction must reverse magnetic structure, parity symmetry has to be broken. We discover that due to their symmetry that depends on chemical environments, altermagnet devices may naturally carry the parity symmetry breaking required for deterministic electrical switching of magnetism. More importantly, we identify MnTe and FeS bilayers as candidate devices. This scheme will inspire further explorations on unconventional magnetism and potential applications.

Paper number 78:
Title: One Pot Synthesis of Cubic Gauche Polymeric Nitrogen
Authors: Runteng Chen, Jun Zhang, Zelong Wang, Ke Lu, Yi Peng, Jianfa Zhao, Shaomin Feng, Changqing Jin
Abstract: The long sought cubic gauche polymeric nitrogen (cg-N) consisting of N-N single bonds has been synthesized by a simple route using sodium azide as a precursor at ambient conditions. The recrystallization process was designed to expose crystal faces with low activation energy that facilitates initiating the polymeric reaction at ambient conditions. The azide was considered as a precursor due to the low energy barrier in transforming double bonded N=N to single bonded cg-N. Raman spectrum measurements detected the emerging vibron peaks at 635 cm-1 for the polymerized sodium azide samples, demonstrating the formation of cg-N with N-N single bonds. Different from traditional high pressure technique and recently developed plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition method, the route achieves the quantitative synthesis of cg-N at ambient conditions. The simple method to synthesize cg-N offers potential for further scale up production as well as practical applications of polymeric nitrogen based materials as high energy density materials.

Paper number 79:
Title: Wear and corrosion properties of Mg(OH)2 compound layer formed on magnesium alloy in superheated water vapor
Authors: Tianxiang Peng, Liang Wang
Abstract: The wear resistance of magnesium and its alloys is very poor due to their inherent low hardness and poor tribological properties. Improving the wear resistance of magnesium and its alloys plays a significant role in expanding their application range. Various surface treatments have been used to produce protective coatings or layers for solving this problem. In this work, the Mg(OH)2 layer with a thickness about 25 microns was directly formed on AZ91magnesium alloy by oxidizing in superheated water vapor. SEM and XRD were employed to characterize the microstructure and phase composition of oxidized layer. The effect of oxidized layer on the friction and wear properties of magnesium alloy against the bearing steel ball were evaluated by using a reciprocating friction and wear test apparatus. The results showed that layer exhibited low friction coefficients and extremely small wear loss compared to the untreated substrate. Keywords: Magnesium alloy; Mg(OH)2 layer; superheated water vapor; wear resistance.

Paper number 80:
Title: Charge and spin transport in nanoscopic structures with spin-orbit coupling
Authors: A. A. Reynoso, G. Usaj, C.A. Balseiro
Abstract: During the last years there has been much interest, and theoretical discussion, about the possibility to use spin-orbit coupling to control the carriers spins in two-dimensional semiconducting heterostructures. Spin polarization at the sample edges may occur as the response of systems with strong SO-coupling to an external transport current, an effect known as spin Hall effect. Here, we show that in a 2DEG with Rashba SO-coupling, spin polarization near the sample edge can develop kinematically for low electron densities. We also discuss the effect in quantum wires where lateral confinement plays an important role.

Paper number 81:
Title: Atomistic modeling of the structure and diffusion processes at Al(110)/Si(001) interphase boundaries obtained by vapor deposition
Authors: Yang Li, Yuri Mishin
Abstract: We report on molecular dynamics simulations of the atomic structure and diffusion processes at Al(110)/Si(001) interphase boundary created by simulated vapor deposition of Al(Si) alloy onto Si(001) substrate. An array of parallel misfit dislocations of both full and partial types is observed at the interface. Si atoms segregate to the misfit dislocations, with segregation to full dislocations being stronger. The interface diffusion is dominated by short-circuit diffusion along the misfit dislocations, creating a significant diffusion anisotropy. Diffusion of Al and Si atoms along the full misfit dislocations is faster than along the partial misfit dislocations. Due to the presence of the misfit dislocations, diffusion at the Al(110)/Si(001) interface studied here is faster than diffusion at the Al(111)/Si(111) interfaces investigated in our previous work.

Paper number 82:
Title: Signatures of Kitaev interactions in the van der Waals ferromagnet VI3
Authors: Yiqing Gu, Yimeng Gu, Feiyang Liu, Seiko Ohira-Kawamura, Naoki Murai, Jun Zhao
Abstract: Materials manifesting the Kitaev model, characterized by bond-dependent interactions on a honeycomb lattice, can host exotic phenomena like quantum spin liquid states and topological magnetic excitations. However, finding such materials remains a formidable challenge. Here, we report high-resolution inelastic neutron scattering measurements performed on VI3, a van der Waals ferromagnetic Mott insulator, covering a wide range of reciprocal space. Our measurements unveil highly anisotropic magnetic excitations in momentum space. Through a comprehensive comparative analysis of various models that incorporate diverse symmetry-allowed magnetic interactions, we find the observed excitations are well captured by a model with a large bond-dependent Kitaev interaction. These results not only help to understand the intriguing properties of VI3, such as the pronounced anomalous thermal Hall effects and strong pressure/structure dependence of magnetism, but also open a new avenue for exploring Kitaev physics.

Paper number 83:
Title: Quantitative Phase Retrieval and Characterization of Magnetic Nanostructures via Lorentz (Scanning) Transmission Electron Microscopy
Authors: Kayna L. Mendoza, Haoyang Ni, Georgios Varnavides, Miaofang Chi, Colin Ophus, Amanda Petford-Long, Charudatta Phatak
Abstract: Magnetic materials phase reconstruction from Lorentz transmission electron microscopy (LTEM) measurements has traditionally been achieved using longstanding methods such as off-axis holography (OAH) and the transport-of-intensity equation (TIE). Amidst the increase in access to processing power and the development of advanced algorithms, phase retrieval of nanoscale magnetic materials with higher fidelity and resolution, potentially down to the few nanometer limit, becomes possible. Specifically, reverse-mode automatic differentiation (RMAD) and the extended electron ptychography iterative engine (ePIE) are two methods that have been utilized for high confidence phase reconstructions using LTEM through-focal series imaging and Lorentz scanning TEM (Ltz-4D-STEM), respectively. This work evaluates phase retrieval using TIE, RMAD, and ePIE in simulations consisting of an array of Permalloy (Ni80Fe20) nanoscale islands. Extending beyond simulations, we demonstrate total phase reconstructions of a NiFe nanowire using OAH and RMAD in LTEM and ePIE in Ltz-4D-STEM experiments and determine the magnetization saturation through corroborations with micromagnetic simulations. Finally, we show how the total phase shift gradient can be utilized to observe and characterize the proximity effects emanating from neighboring magnetic island interactions and an isolated NiFe nanowire.

Paper number 84:
Title: Orbital-selective electron correlations in high-$T_{\rm c}$ bilayer nickelates: from a global phase diagram to implications for spectroscopy
Authors: Zhiguang Liao, Yiming Wang, Lei Chen, Guijing Duan, Rong Yu, Qimiao Si
Abstract: Motivated by the high temperature superconductivity observed in the bilayer nickelate La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$ and the spectroscopic evidences of strong electron correlations in this compound, we address the role of its multiorbital electron correlations by proposing a global phase diagram of a bilayer two-orbital Hubbard model. We find a Mott transition developing at half filling, and identify strong orbital selectivity when the system is at the physical electron count. The orbital selectivity is manifested in the formation of interlayer spin singlets between electrons in the $z^2$ orbitals. These features lead to a strong renormalization of the electronic band structure while sustaining a sizable splitting between the bonding and antibonding $z^2$ bands. The proposed orbital-selective correlations naturally explain a series of features as observed in the angular resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) and optical conductivity measurements in La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$. Our results provide a basis to understand both the normal state and the high temperature superconductivity of multilayer nickelates and thereby elucidate correlated superconductivity in general.

Paper number 85:
Title: Control of spatiotemporal chaos by stochastic resetting
Authors: Camille Aron, Manas Kulkarni
Abstract: We study how spatiotemporal chaos in dynamical systems can be controlled by stochastically returning them to their initial conditions. Focusing on discrete nonlinear maps, we analyze how key measures of chaos -- the Lyapunov exponent and butterfly velocity, which quantify sensitivity to initial perturbations and the ballistic spread of information, respectively -- are reduced by stochastic resetting. We identify a critical resetting rate that induces a dynamical phase transition, characterized by the simultaneous vanishing of the Lyapunov exponent and butterfly velocity, effectively arresting the spread of information. These theoretical predictions are validated and illustrated with numerical simulations of the celebrated logistic map and its lattice extension. Beyond discrete maps, our findings offer insights applicable to a broad class of extended classical interacting systems.

Paper number 86:
Title: First-principles Spin and Optical Properties of Vacancy Clusters in Lithium Fluoride
Authors: Mariano Guerrero Perez, Keegan Walkup, Jordan Chapman, Pranshu Bhaumik, Giti Khodaparast, Brenden Magill, Patrick Huber, Vsevolod Ivanov
Abstract: Vacancy-cluster color centers in lithium fluoride have been studied in detail both theoretically and experimentally for over a century, giving rise to various applications in solid-state lasers, broadband photonic devices, and radiation dosimeters. These color centers are also attractive candidate platforms for applications in quantum information science, due to their spin properties and strong coupling to the crystal lattice, which allows their properties to be easily tuned. Here we present hybrid functional calculations of common vacancy defects in lithium fluoride, including their energetic, spin, and optical properties. We show that for a wide range of hybrid functional parameters tuned to match the experimental band gap, certain defects have little variation in their predicted optical properties. We further demonstrate that the parameters needed to satisfy the generalized Koopman's theorem and correctly position defect levels within the gap, can vary dramatically, even for different charge states of the same defect. Our work establishes the accuracy of the computationally lightweight hybrid-functional approach for predicting the optical and energetic properties of color centers in polar materials.

Paper number 87:
Title: Fractional quantum Hall states by Feynman's diagrammatic expansion
Authors: Ben Currie, Evgeny Kozik
Abstract: The fractional quantum Hall (FQH) effect arises from strong electron correlations in a quantising magnetic field, and features exotic emergent phenomena such as electron fractionalisation. Using the diagrammatic Monte Carlo approach with the combinatorial summation algorithm, we obtain results with controlled accuracy for the microscopic model of interacting electrons in the lowest Landau level. As the temperature is lowered, we study the development and emergence of the incompressible 1/3-filled FQH state. By analysing the long-time decay of the Green's function, we find spectral properties consistent with an energy gap near 1/3-filling, while at half-filling an anomalous power law scaling is observed for short-range interaction screening, indicative of a non-Fermi liquid metal. Our work provides the first demonstration that fractionalised phases of matter can be reliably described with Feynman's diagrammatic technique in terms of the fundamental electronic degrees of freedom, while also showing applicability of expansions in the bare Coulomb potential for precision calculations.

Paper number 88:
Title: Enhanced coarsening of charge density waves induced by electron correlation: Machine-learning enabled large-scale dynamical simulations
Authors: Yang Yang, Chen Cheng, Yunhao Fan, Gia-Wei Chern
Abstract: The phase ordering kinetics of emergent orders in correlated electron systems is a fundamental topic in non-equilibrium physics, yet it remains largely unexplored. The intricate interplay between quasiparticles and emergent order-parameter fields could lead to unusual coarsening dynamics that is beyond the standard theories. However, accurate treatment of both quasiparticles and collective degrees of freedom is a multi-scale challenge in dynamical simulations of correlated electrons. Here we leverage modern machine learning (ML) methods to achieve a linear-scaling algorithm for simulating the coarsening of charge density waves (CDWs), one of the fundamental symmetry breaking phases in functional electron materials. We demonstrate our approach on the square-lattice Hubbard-Holstein model and uncover an intriguing enhancement of CDW coarsening which is related to the screening of on-site potential by electron-electron interactions. Our study provides fresh insights into the role of electron correlations in non-equilibrium dynamics and underscores the promise of ML force-field approaches for advancing multi-scale dynamical modeling of correlated electron systems.

Paper number 89:
Title: Co-diffusion of hydrogen and oxygen for dense oxyhydride synthesis
Authors: Masaya Fujioka, Mihiro Hoshino, Suguru Iwasaki, Katsuhiro Nomura, Aman Sharma, Mineyuki Hattori, Reina Utsumi, Yuki Nakahira, Hiroyuki Saitoh
Abstract: Oxyhydrides are gaining attention for their diverse functionality. However, evaluating electron, ion, and phonon transport properties and comprehending their mechanism remains challenging due to the difficulty in oxyhydride synthesis involving the trade-off between achieving density sintering and preventing hydrogen evolution. High-temperature treatments, often required to reduce intergranular resistance, typically cause hydrogen evolution before sufficient sintering. Instead of a post-annealing process aiming for strong chemical connections between oxyhydride particles, this research demonstrates a novel synthesis technique that converts pre-sintered bulk oxides into oxyhydrides while preserving the dense state. The process employs a high-pressure diffusion control method, facilitating the co-diffusion of hydride and oxide ions.

Paper number 90:
Title: Heterostructure Engineering for Wurtzite LaN
Authors: Andrew J. E. Rowberg, Sai Mu, Chris G. Van de Walle
Abstract: Wurtzite LaN (wz-LaN) is a semiconducting nitride with favorable piezoelectric and ferroelectric properties, making it promising for applications in electronics. We use first-principles density functional theory with a hybrid functional to investigate several features that are key for its use in heterostructures. First, for the purposes of growing wz-LaN on a substrate or designing a heterostructure, we show that it can be lattice-matched with a number of cubic materials along their [111] axes. We also evaluate the bound charge at such interfaces, taking into account both the polarization discontinuity and the piezoelectric polarization due to pseudomorphic strain. Second, we investigate band alignments and assess the results for interfaces with zincblende-, rocksalt-, and perovskite-structure compounds, and with chemically similar wurtzite and rocksalt nitrides. Our results provide guidance for the development of electronic devices based on wz-LaN.

Paper number 91:
Title: Epitaxial Sr-doped nickelate perovskite thin films and Ruddlesden-Popper phases grown by magnetron sputtering
Authors: Changhwan Kim, Min Young Jung, Yeong Gwang Khim, Kyeong Jun Lee, Young Jun Chang, Seo Hyoung Chang
Abstract: Sr-doped nickelate, Nd1-xSrxNiO3 (NSNO), perovskite thin films and Ruddlesden-Popper (RP) phases are actively investigated because of their physical properties, such as the metal-insulator transition and superconductivity. However, achieving epitaxial growth of NSNO perovskite and RP phase films in a sputtering system is challenging compared to pulsed laser deposition and molecular beam epitaxy, due to the difficulty in stabilizing nickel oxidation states and minimizing structural defects. Here, we used an off-axis radio frequency (RF) magnetron sputtering to fabricate epitaxial NSNO perovskite and RP phase thin films on SrTiO3 (001) substrates, systematically controlling the growth temperatures. We investigated the thermal stability of the perovskite phase and the structural and electronic characteristics of the RP phase films. These findings provide valuable insights into the synthesis of nickelate RP phase films using RF magnetron sputtering, paving the way for scalable thin films fabrication technologies.

Paper number 92:
Title: Z$_2$ topological orders in kagom\'e dipolar systems: Feedback from Rydberg quantum simulator
Authors: Pengwei Zhao, Gang v. Chen
Abstract: The mutual feedback between quantum condensed matter and cold atom physics has been quite fruitful throughout history and continues to inspire ongoing research. Motivated by the recent activities on the quantum simulation of topological orders among the ultracold Rydberg atom arrays, we consider the possibility of searching for topological orders among the dipolar quantum magnets and polar molecules with a kagomé lattice geometry. Together with other quantum interactions such as the transverse field, the dipolar interaction endows the kagomé system with a similar structure as the Balents-Fisher-Girvin model and thus fosters the emergence of the $\mathbb{Z}_2$ topological orders. We construct a $\mathbb{Z}_2$ lattice gauge theory to access the topological ordered phase and describe the spinon and vison excitations for the $\mathbb{Z}_2$ topological orders. We explain the spectroscopic consequences for various quantum phases as well as the experimental detection. We further discuss the rare-earth kagomé magnets, ultracold polar molecules, and cluster Mott insulators for the physical realization.

Paper number 93:
Title: Positional information trade-offs in boundary-driven reaction-diffusion systems
Authors: Jonas Berx, Prashant Singh, Karel Proesmans
Abstract: Individual components such as cells, particles, or agents within a larger system often require detailed understanding of their relative position to act accordingly, enabling the system as a whole to function in an organised and efficient manner. Through the concept of positional information, such components are able to specify their position in order to, e.g., create robust spatial patterns or coordinate specific functionality. Such complex behaviour generally occurs far from thermodynamic equilibrium and thus requires the dissipation of free energy to sustain functionality. We show that in boundary-driven simple exclusion systems with position-dependent Langmuir kinetics, non-trivial Pareto-optimal trade-offs exist between the positional information, rescaled entropy production rate and global reaction current. Phase transitions in the optimal protocols that tune the densities of the system boundaries emerge as a result, showing that distinct protocols are able to exchange global optimality similar to phase coexistence in liquid-gas phase transitions, and that increasing the positional information can lead to diminishing returns when considering increased dissipation.

Paper number 94:
Title: Physical scaling in microstructures and avalanches of dislocation by Dislocation Dynamics simulations
Authors: Missipsa Aissaoui, Charlie Kahloun, Oguz Umut Salman, Sylvain Queyreau
Abstract: At the mesoscale, the avalanche-like plastic bursts are associated with statistical signatures, whose parameters are not always well defined. In this work, we performed large scale and realistic Dislocation Dynamics simulations of the deformation of fcc Cu in bulk systems under fixed strain rate. Our results show that the power law exponent is not impacted by the dislocation density nor the loading direction. However, dislocation density controls the scaling of the power law truncation in avalanche statistics and triggering stress at the origin of plastic events. The correlation between the activities of slip systems is highlighted. Our quantitative data can provide explanations for some experimental observations and help link the mesoscopic plasticity picture to larger-scale models.

Paper number 95:
Title: Eigenstructure Analysis of Bloch Wave and Multislice Matrix Formulations for Dynamical Scattering in Transmission Electron Microscopy
Authors: Arya Bangun, Oleh Melnyk, Benjamin März
Abstract: We investigate the eigenstructure of matrix formulations used for modeling scattering processes in materials by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Considering dynamical scattering is fundamental in describing the interaction between an electron wave and the material under investigation. In TEM, both the Bloch wave formulation and the multislice method are commonly employed to model the scattering process, but comparing these models directly is challenging. Unlike the Bloch wave formulation, which represents the transmission function in terms of the scattering matrix, the traditional multislice method does not have a pure transmission function due to the entanglement between electron waves and the propagation function within the crystal. To address this, we propose a reformulation of the multislice method into a matrix framework, which we refer to as transmission matrix. This enables a direct comparison to the well-known scattering matrix, derived from the Bloch wave formulation, and analysis of their eigenstructures. We show theoretically that both matrices are equal, under the condition that the angles of the eigenvalues differ no more than modulo $2\pi n$ for integer $n$, and the eigenvectors of the transmission and scattering matrix are related in terms of a two-dimensional Fourier matrix. The characterization of both matrices in terms of physical parameters, such as total projected potentials, is also discussed, and we perform numerical simulations to validate our theoretical findings. Finally, we show that the determinant of the transmission matrix can be used to estimate the mean inner potential.

Paper number 96:
Title: Anyonization of bosons
Authors: Sudipta Dhar, Botao Wang, Milena Horvath, Amit Vashisht, Yi Zeng, Mikhail B. Zvonarev, Nathan Goldman, Yanliang Guo, Manuele Landini, Hanns-Christoph Nägerl
Abstract: Anyons are low-dimensional quasiparticles that obey fractional statistics, hence interpolating between bosons and fermions. In two dimensions, they exist as elementary excitations of fractional quantum Hall states and they are believed to enable topological quantum computing. One-dimensional (1D) anyons have been theoretically proposed, but their experimental realization has proven to be difficult. Here, we observe anyonic correlations, which emerge through the phenomenon of spin-charge separation, in a 1D strongly-interacting quantum gas. The required spin degree of freedom is provided by a mobile impurity, whose effective anyonic correlations are associated with an experimentally tunable statistical angle. These anyonic correlations are measured by monitoring the impurity momentum distribution, whose asymmetric feature demonstrates the transmutation of bosons via anyons to fermions. Going beyond equilibrium conditions, we study the dynamical properties of the anyonic correlations via dynamical fermionization of the anyons. Our work opens up the door to the exploration of non-equilibrium anyonic phenomena in a highly controllable setting.

Paper number 97:
Title: 1/5 and 1/3 magnetization plateaux in the spin 1/2 chain system YbAlO3
Authors: P. Mokhtari, S. Galeski, U. Stockert, S. E. Nikitin, R. Wawrzynczak, R. Kuechler, M. Brando, L. Vasylechko, O. A. Starykh, E. Hassinger
Abstract: Quasi-one-dimensional magnets can host an ordered longitudinal spin-density wave state (LSDW) in magnetic field at low temperature, when longitudinal correlations are strengthened by Ising anisotropies. In the S = 1/2 Heisenberg antiferromagnet YbAlO3 this happens via Ising-like interchain interactions. Here, we report the first experimental observation of magnetization plateaux at 1/5 and 1/3 of the saturation value via thermal transport and magnetostriction measurements in YbAlO3. We present a phenomenological theory of the plateau states that describes them as islands of commensurability within an otherwise incommensurate LSDW phase and explains their relative positions within the LSDW phase and their relative extent in a magnetic field. Notably, the plateaux are stabilised by ferromagnetic interchain interactions in YbAlO3 and consistently are absent in other quasi-1D magnets such as BaCo2V2O8 with antiferromagnetic interchain interactions. We also report a sharp, step-like increase of the magnetostriction coefficient, indicating a phase transition of unknown origin in the high-field phase just below the saturation.

Paper number 98:
Title: Pressure-tunable structural instabilities in single-layer-trilayer La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$
Authors: Alaska Subedi
Abstract: Layered nickelates are believed to exhibit superconductivity similar to that found in the cuprates. However, the precise crystal structure of the superconducting phase of the layered nickelates has not been fully clarified. Here, I use first principles calculations to study the pressure dependence of the structural instabilities in the single-layer-trilayer La$_3$Ni$_2$O$_7$, which is one member of the layered nickelates family that also shows signatures of superconductivity. I find a nearly dispersionless nondegenerate phonon branch in the parent $P4/mmm$ phase that is unstable along the Brillouin zone edge $M$ $(\frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{2}, 0)$ $\rightarrow$ $A$ $(\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{2})$ at all investigated pressures up to 30 GPa. Calculations show additional doubly-degenerate instabilities along the edge $MA$ at lower pressures. I used group-theoretical analysis to identify the distinct low-symmetry distortions possible due to these instabilities and generated them using the eigenvectors of the unstable modes. Structural relaxations show that the lowest energy structures at 0 and 10 GPa involve condensation of both the nondegenerate and doubly-degenerate instabilities, which is in contrast to the experimental refinements that involve condensation of only the doubly-degenerate branch. I also find that structural distortions are energetically favorable at 20 GPa, contrary to the experiments that do not observe any distortions of the parent $P4/mmm$ structure at high pressures.

Paper number 99:
Title: Downscaling of non van der Waals Semimetallic W5N6 with Resistivity Preservation
Authors: Hongze Gao, Da Zhou, Lu Ping, Zifan Wang, Nguyen Tuan Hung, Jun Cao, Michael Geiwitz, Gabriel Natale, Yuxuan Cosmi Lin, Kenneth Stephen Burch, Riichiro Saito, Mauricio Terrones, Xi Ling
Abstract: The bulk phase of transition metal nitrides (TMNs) has long been a subject of extensive investigation due to their utility as coating materials, electrocatalysts, and diffusion barriers, attributed to their high conductivity and refractory properties. Downscaling TMNs into two-dimensional (2D) forms would provide valuable members to the existing 2D materials repertoire, with potential enhancements across various applications. Moreover, calculations have anticipated the emergence of uncommon physical phenomena in TMNs at the 2D limit. In this study, we use the atomic substitution approach to synthesize 2D W5N6 with tunable thicknesses from tens of nanometers down to 2.9 nm. The obtained flakes exhibit high crystallinity and smooth surfaces. Electrical measurements on 15 samples show an average electrical conductivity of 161.1 S/cm, which persists while thickness decreases from 45.6 nm to 2.9 nm. The observed weak gate tuning effect suggests the semimetallic nature of the synthesized 2D W5N6. Further investigation into the conversion mechanism elucidates the crucial role of chalcogen vacancies in the precursor for initiating the reaction and strain in propagating the conversion. Our work introduces a desired semimetallic crystal to the 2D material library with mechanistic insights for future design of the synthesis.

Paper number 100:
Title: Re-programmable self-assembly of magnetic lattices
Authors: Audrey A. Watkins, Osama R. Bilal
Abstract: Simple local interactions can cause primitive building blocks to self-assemble into complex and functional patterns. However, even for a small number of blocks, there exist a vast number of possible configurations that are plausible, stable, and with varying degree of order. The ability to dynamically shift between multi-stable patterns (i.e., reprogram the self-assembly) entails navigating an intractable search space, which remains a challenge. In this paper, we engineer the self-assembly of macroscopic magnetic particles to create metamaterials with dynamically reversible emergent phases. We utilize a boundary composed of magnetic hinges to confine free-floating magnetic disks into different stable assemblies. We exploit the non-destructive nature of the magnetic boundaries to create re-programmable two-dimensional metamaterials that morphs from crystalline to quasi-crystalline to disordered assembly using the same number of disks and boundary. Furthermore, we explore their utility to control the propagation of sound waves in an effectively undamped media with rich nonlinearities. Our findings can expand the metamaterials horizon into functional and tunable devices.

Paper number 101:
Title: Dynamic magnetic response in ABA type trilayered systems and compensation phenomenon
Authors: Enakshi Guru, Sonali Saha, Sankhasubhra Nag
Abstract: Dynamic magnetic response in a trilayered structure with non-equivalent layers (ABA type) has been studied with Monte Carlo simulation using Metropolis algorithm. In each layer, ferromagnetic (FM) nearest neighbour Ising interactions are present along with antiferromagnetic (AFM) nearest neighbour coupling across different layers. The system is studied under a harmonically oscillating external magnetic field. It is revealed that along with dynamic phase transition (DPT), compensation phenomenon emerges in this system under dynamic scenario too. This feature in dynamic case is unique for such trilayered systems only, in contrast to the bulk system reported earlier. The temporal behaviour of the magnetisation of each individual layer shows that different magnetic response of the non-equivalent layers results into such dynamic compensation phenomenon. The difference in response also results into warping of the dynamic hysteresis loops, under various external parameter values, such as amplitude of the oscillating field and temperature.

Paper number 102:
Title: Estimating time in quantum chaotic systems and black holes
Authors: Haifeng Tang, Shreya Vardhan, Jinzhao Wang
Abstract: We characterize new universal features of the dynamics of chaotic quantum many-body systems, by considering a hypothetical task of "time estimation." Most macroscopic observables in a chaotic system equilibrate to nearly constant late-time values. Intuitively, it should become increasingly difficult to estimate the precise value of time by making measurements on the state. We use a quantity called the Fisher information from quantum metrology to quantify the minimum uncertainty in estimating time. Due to unitarity, the uncertainty in the time estimate does not grow with time if we have access to optimal measurements on the full system. Restricting the measurements to act on a small subsystem or to have low computational complexity leads to results expected from equilibration, where the time uncertainty becomes large at late times. With optimal measurements on a subsystem larger than half of the system, we regain the ability to estimate the time very precisely, even at late times. Hawking's calculation for the reduced density matrix of the black hole radiation in semiclassical gravity contradicts our general predictions for unitary quantum chaotic systems. Hawking's state always has a large uncertainty for attempts to estimate the time using the radiation, whereas our general results imply that the uncertainty should become small after the Page time. This gives a new version of the black hole information loss paradox in terms of the time estimation task. By restricting to simple measurements on the radiation, the time uncertainty becomes large. This indicates from a new perspective that the observations of computationally bounded agents are consistent with the semiclassical effective description of gravity.

Paper number 103:
Title: SolarDesign: An Online Photovoltaic Device Simulation and Design Platform
Authors: Wei E. I. Sha, Xiaoyu Wang, Wenchao Chen, Yuhao Fu, Lijun Zhang, Liang Tian, Minshen Lin, Shudi Jiao, Ting Xu, Tiange Sun, Dongxue Liu
Abstract: SolarDesign (this https URL) is an online photovoltaic device simulation and design platform that provides engineering modeling analysis for crystalline silicon solar cells, as well as emerging high-efficiency solar cells such as organic, perovskite, and tandem cells. The platform offers user-updatable libraries of basic photovoltaic materials and devices, device-level multi-physics simulations involving optical-electrical-thermal interactions, and circuit-level compact model simulations based on detailed balance theory. Employing internationally advanced numerical methods, the platform accurately, rapidly, and efficiently solves optical absorption, electrical transport, and compact circuit models. It achieves multi-level photovoltaic simulation technology from ``materials to devices to circuits'' with fully independent intellectual property rights. Compared to commercial software, the platform achieves high accuracy and improves speed by more than an order of magnitude. Additionally, it can simulate unique electrical transport processes in emerging solar cells, such as quantum tunneling, exciton dissociation, and ion migration.

Paper number 104:
Title: The quantum Kibble-Zurek mechanism: the role of boundary conditions, endpoints and kink types
Authors: Jose Soto Garcia, Natalia Chepiga
Abstract: Quantum phase transitions are characterised by the universal scaling laws in the critical region surrounding the transitions. This universality is also manifested in the critical real-time dynamics through the quantum Kibble-Zurek mechanism. In recent experiments on a Rydberg atom quantum simulator, the Kibble-Zurek mechanism has been used to probe the nature of quantum phase transitions. In this paper we analyze the caveats associated with this method and develop strategies to improve its accuracy. Focusing on two minimal models -- transverse-field Ising and three-state Potts -- we study the effect of boundary conditions, the location of the endpoints and some subtleties in the definition of the kink operators. In particular, we show that the critical scaling of the most intuitive types of kinks is extremely sensitive to the correct choice of endpoint, while more advanced types of kinks exhibit remarkably robust universal scaling. Furthermore, we show that when kinks are tracked over the entire chain, fixed boundary conditions improve the accuracy of the scaling. Surprisingly, the Kibble-Zurek critical scaling appears to be equally accurate whether the fixed boundary conditions are chosen to be symmetric or anti-symmetric. Finally, we show that the density of kinks extracted in the central part of long chains obeys the predicted universal scaling for all types of boundary conditions.

Paper number 105:
Title: Experimental investigation of a quantum Otto heat engine with shortcuts to adiabaticity implemented using counter-adiabatic driving
Authors: Krishna Shende, Matreyee Kandpal, Arvind, Kavita Dorai
Abstract: The finite time operation of a quantum Otto heat engine leads to a trade-off between efficiency and output power, which is due to the deviation of the system from the adiabatic path. This trade-off caveat can be bypassed by using the shortcut-to-adiabaticity protocol. We experimentally implemented a quantum Otto heat engine using spin-1/2 nuclei on a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) quantum processor. We investigated its performance using the shortcut-to-adiabaticity technique via counter-adiabatic driving with the inclusion of the cost to perform the shortcut. We use two different metrics that incorporate the cost of shortcut-to-adiabaticity to define engine efficiency and experimentally analyze which one is more appropriate for the NMR platform. We found a significant improvement in the performance of the quantum Otto heat engine driven by shortcut-to-adiabaticity, as compared to the non-adiabatic heat engine.

Paper number 106:
Title: Continuous and Reversible Electrical Tuning of Fluorescent Decay Rate via Fano Resonance
Authors: Emre Ozan Polat, Zafer Artvin, Yusuf Şaki, Alpan Bek, Ramazan Sahin
Abstract: Decay rate of an atomic or molecular dipole depends on the local density of optical states (LDOS) -- Purcell effect -- which can significantly be enhanced near a dielectric-core metal-shell nanoparticle (CSNP). On top of that, an auxiliary quantum object (QO) can introduce a Fano transparency in the plasmonic spectrum of the CSNP. Here, we show that an auxiliary QO, located at the hotspot of the CSNP, can modify the LDOS, hence the decay rate of an excited dipole. Moreover, by controlling the resonance of the auxiliary QO via an applied voltage, one can continuously and reversibly tune both the radiative and nonradiative decay rates of the dipole up to 2 orders-of-magnitude. This phenomenon emerges as an invaluable tool to implement in integrated quantum technologies, enabling realization of on-demand entanglement/single-photon sources, controlled execution of quantum gates and electrical-control of superradiant-like phase transitions. It also bears potential for application in super-resolution microscopy and surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS).

Paper number 107:
Title: An analytic theory of creativity in convolutional diffusion models
Authors: Mason Kamb, Surya Ganguli
Abstract: We obtain the first analytic, interpretable and predictive theory of creativity in convolutional diffusion models. Indeed, score-based diffusion models can generate highly creative images that lie far from their training data. But optimal score-matching theory suggests that these models should only be able to produce memorized training examples. To reconcile this theory-experiment gap, we identify two simple inductive biases, locality and equivariance, that: (1) induce a form of combinatorial creativity by preventing optimal score-matching; (2) result in a fully analytic, completely mechanistically interpretable, equivariant local score (ELS) machine that, (3) without any training can quantitatively predict the outputs of trained convolution only diffusion models (like ResNets and UNets) with high accuracy (median $r^2$ of $0.90, 0.91, 0.94$ on CIFAR10, FashionMNIST, and MNIST). Our ELS machine reveals a locally consistent patch mosaic model of creativity, in which diffusion models create exponentially many novel images by mixing and matching different local training set patches in different image locations. Our theory also partially predicts the outputs of pre-trained self-attention enabled UNets (median $r^2 \sim 0.75$ on CIFAR10), revealing an intriguing role for attention in carving out semantic coherence from local patch mosaics.

Paper number 108:
Title: Emittance Minimization for Aberration Correction II: Physics-informed Bayesian Optimization of an Electron Microscope
Authors: Desheng Ma, Steven E. Zeltmann, Chenyu Zhang, Zhaslan Baraissov, Yu-Tsun Shao, Cameron Duncan, Jared Maxson, Auralee Edelen, David A. Muller
Abstract: Aberration-corrected Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy (STEM) has become an essential tool in understanding materials at the atomic scale. However, tuning the aberration corrector to produce a sub-Ångström probe is a complex and time-costly procedure, largely due to the difficulty of precisely measuring the optical state of the system. When measurements are both costly and noisy, Bayesian methods provide rapid and efficient optimization. To this end, we develop a Bayesian approach to fully automate the process by minimizing a new quality metric, beam emittance, which is shown to be equivalent to performing aberration correction. In part I, we derived several important properties of the beam emittance metric and trained a deep neural network to predict beam emittance growth from a single Ronchigram. Here we use this as the black box function for Bayesian Optimization and demonstrate automated tuning of simulated and real electron microscopes. We explore different surrogate functions for the Bayesian optimizer and implement a deep neural network kernel to effectively learn the interactions between different control channels without the need to explicitly measure a full set of aberration coefficients. Both simulation and experimental results show the proposed method outperforms conventional approaches by achieving a better optical state with a higher convergence rate.

Paper number 109:
Title: Emittance Minimization for Aberration Correction I: Aberration correction of an electron microscope without knowing the aberration coefficients
Authors: Desheng Ma, Steven E. Zeltmann, Chenyu Zhang, Zhaslan Baraissov, Yu-Tsun Shao, Cameron Duncan, Jared Maxson, Auralee Edelen, David A. Muller
Abstract: Precise alignment of the electron beam is critical for successful application of scanning transmission electron microscopes (STEM) to understanding materials at atomic level. Despite the success of aberration correctors, aberration correction is still a complex process. Here we approach aberration correction from the perspective of accelerator physics and show it is equivalent to minimizing the emittance growth of the beam, the span of the phase space distribution of the probe. We train a deep learning model to predict emittance growth from experimentally accessible Ronchigrams. Both simulation and experimental results show the model can capture the emittance variation with aberration coefficients accurately. We further demonstrate the model can act as a fast-executing function for the global optimization of the lens parameters. Our approach enables new ways to quickly quantify and automate aberration correction that takes advantage of the rapid measurements possible with high-speed electron cameras. In part II of the paper, we demonstrate how the emittance metric enables rapid online tuning of the aberration corrector using Bayesian optimization.

Paper number 110:
Title: Quantum Phase Transitions in the Spin 1 Bilinear-Biquadratic Heisenberg Model Based on Classical and Quantum Correlations
Authors: Ghader Najarbashi, Hassan Bahmani, Babak Tarighi
Abstract: We investigate thermal and nonthermal quantum correlations in the one dimensional spin 1 bilinear-biquadratic Heisenberg model. Using tools from quantum information theory such as generalized concurrence, negativity, and various measures of quantum, classical, and total correlations in bipartite states we demonstrate that these measures effectively identify quantum phase transitions (QPTs) at critical points. Our negativity analysis reveals nearly identical results at zero or very low temperatures. Importantly, we find that partial concurrence, defined with the reduced density matrix, detects more quantum critical points than total concurrence. Additionally, we argue that spin chains with an odd number of spins are more effective than those with an even number in identifying QPTs.

Paper number 111:
Title: Transport coefficients of dense nucleon matter at low temperature
Authors: Jianing Li, Weiyao Ke
Abstract: Transport properties of cold and dense nucleon matter are important for both nuclear and astrophysics but are relatively less studied than those at finite temperatures. In this paper, we present a primary study of bulk and shear viscosities in the limit $T/\mu_B \ll 1$, where $T$ and $\mu_B$ are the temperature and the baryon chemical potential. The analysis is performed for a generic system where nucleons are dressed by the condensation of both scalar and vector interactions. Under the relaxation time approximation of the Boltzmann equation, we compute the viscosities of the system to leading power in $T/\mu_B$ expansion and establish a relation between the thermodynamic potential and transport coefficients, including bulk viscosity ($\zeta$) and shear viscosity ($\eta$). It is found that hydrodynamic stability ($\zeta>0$) imposes additional constraints on the thermodynamic potential. As an example, these relations are applied to the Walecka model. The fluid properties of the cold and dense nucleon matter are characterized by the dimensionless combination of viscosities times the quasi-Fermi momentum over the enthalpy. Furthermore, we discuss the implication of the stability condition on the range of applicability of the model.

Paper number 112:
Title: Random Matrix Theory for Stochastic Gradient Descent
Authors: Chanju Park, Matteo Favoni, Biagio Lucini, Gert Aarts
Abstract: Investigating the dynamics of learning in machine learning algorithms is of paramount importance for understanding how and why an approach may be successful. The tools of physics and statistics provide a robust setting for such investigations. Here we apply concepts from random matrix theory to describe stochastic weight matrix dynamics, using the framework of Dyson Brownian motion. We derive the linear scaling rule between the learning rate (step size) and the batch size, and identify universal and non-universal aspects of weight matrix dynamics. We test our findings in the (near-)solvable case of the Gaussian Restricted Boltzmann Machine and in a linear one-hidden-layer neural network.

Paper number 113:
Title: Cascading from $\mathscr{N}=2$ Supersymmetric Yang-Mills Theory to Confinement and Chiral Symmetry Breaking in Adjoint QCD
Authors: Eric D'Hoker, Thomas T. Dumitrescu, Efrat Gerchkovitz, Emily Nardoni
Abstract: We argue that adjoint QCD in 3+1 dimensions, with any $SU(N)$ gauge group and two Weyl fermion flavors (i.e. one adjoint Dirac fermion), confines and spontaneously breaks its chiral symmetries via the condensation of a fermion bilinear. We flow to this theory from pure $\mathscr{N}=2$ SUSY Yang-Mills theory with the same gauge group, by giving a SUSY-breaking mass $M$ to the scalars in the $\mathscr{N} = 2$ vector multiplet. This flow can be analyzed rigorously at small $M$, where it leads to a deconfined vacuum at the origin of the $\mathscr{N}=2$ Coulomb branch. The analysis can be extended to all $M$ using an Abelian dual description that arises from the $N$ multi-monopole points of the $\mathscr{N} = 2$ theory. At each such point, there are $N-1$ hypermultiplet Higgs fields $h_m^{i = 1, 2}$, which are $SU(2)_R$ doublets. We provide a detailed study of the phase diagram as a function of $M$, by analyzing the semi-classical phases of the dual using a combination of analytic and numerical techniques. The result is a cascade of first-order phase transitions, along which the Higgs fields $h_m^i$ successively turn on, and which interpolates between the Coulomb branch at small $M$, where all $h_m^i = 0$, and a maximal Higgs branch, where all $h_m^i \neq 0$, at sufficiently large $M$. We show that this maximal Higgs branch precisely matches the confining and chiral symmetry breaking phase of two-flavor adjoint QCD, including its broken and unbroken symmetries, its massless spectrum, and the expected large-$N$ scaling of various observables. The spontaneous breaking pattern $SU(2)_R \to U(1)_R$, consistent with the Vafa-Witten theorem, is ensured by an intricate alignment mechanism for the $h_m^i$ in the dual, and leads to a $\mathbb{C}\mathbb{P}^1$ sigma model of increasing radius along the cascade.

Paper number 114:
Title: Universal hyper-scaling relations, power-law tails, and data analysis for strong anomalous diffusion
Authors: Jürgen Vollmer, Claudio Giberti, Jordan Orchard, Hannes Reinhard, Carlos Mejía-Monasterio, Lamberto Rondoni
Abstract: Strong anomalous diffusion is {often} characterized by a piecewise-linear spectrum of the moments of displacement. The spectrum is characterized by slopes $\xi$ and $\zeta$ for small and large moments, respectively, and by the critical moment $\alpha$ of the crossover. The exponents $\xi$ and $\zeta$ characterize the asymptotic scaling of the bulk and the tails of the probability distribution function of displacements, respectively. Here, we adopt asymptotic theory to match the behaviors at intermediate scales. The resulting constraint explains how distributions with algebraic tails imply strong anomalous diffusion, and it relates $\alpha$ to the corresponding power law. Our theory provides novel relations between exponents characterizing strong anomalous diffusion, and it yields explicit expressions for the leading-order corrections to the asymptotic power-law behavior of the moments of displacement. They provide the time scale that must be surpassed to clearly discriminate the leading-order power law from its sub-leading corrections. This insight allows us to point out sources of systematic errors in their numerical estimates. Rather than separately fitting an exponent for each moment we devise a robust scheme to determine $\xi$, $\zeta$ and $\alpha$. The findings are supported by numerical and analytical results on five different models exhibiting strong anomalous diffusion.

Paper number 115:
Title: Envelope presentation of Hamilton-Jacobi equations from spin glasses
Authors: Hong-Bin Chen
Abstract: Recently, [arXiv:2311.08980] demonstrated that, if it exists, the limit free energy of possibly non-convex spin glass models must be determined by a characteristic of the associated infinite-dimensional non-convex Hamilton-Jacobi equation. In this work, we investigate a similar theme purely from the perspective of PDEs. Specifically, we study the unique viscosity solution of the aforementioned equation and derive an envelope-type representation formula for the solution, in the form proposed by Evans in [doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s00526-013-0635-3]. The value of the solution is expressed as an average of the values along characteristic lines, weighted by a non-explicit probability measure. The technical challenges arise not only from the infinite dimensionality but also from the fact that the equation is defined on a closed convex cone with an empty interior, rather than on the entire space. In the introduction, we provide a description of the motivation from spin glass theory and present the corresponding results for comparison with the PDE results.

Paper number 116:
Title: Surface Plasmon Polaritons: Creation Dynamics and Interference of Slow and Fast Propagating SPPs at a Temporal Boundary
Authors: Jay A. Berres, S. Ali Hassani Gangaraj, George W. Hanson
Abstract: We establish the theoretical framework for a material system that supports surface plasmon polaritions (SPPs) excited by a dipole excitation, where the media configuration suddenly changes at a temporal boundary. We employ three-dimensional Green's function analysis in the Laplace transform domain. We use this framework to demonstrate dynamic SPP formation and time-boundary-induced interference of slow and fast propagating SPPs. This analysis provides insight into how SPPs are formed in time and how they interfere at a temporal boundary.

Paper number 117:
Title: The Casimir Effect in (3+1)-dimensional lattice Yang-Mills theory at finite temperature: the unexpected universality of quarkiton and glueton boundary states
Authors: Maxim N. Chernodub, Vladimir A. Goy, Alexander V. Molochkov, Konstantin R. Pak, Alexey S. Tanashkin
Abstract: In our earlier work on the Casimir effect in (3+1)-dimensional Yang-Mills theory, we identified two novel nonperturbative states arising in QCD with boundaries: the glueton and the quarkiton. The glueton, or "gluon exciton", is a colorless bound state formed by gluons interacting with their negatively colored images in a chromometallic mirror. The quarkiton, or "quark exciton", is a meson-like state comprising a heavy quark attracted to its image through the mirror. In this study, we extend our analysis to finite temperatures near the deconfinement phase transition $(T \approx 0.78 T_c)$, where we observe a linear potential between a color-neutral chromometallic mirror and a heavy test quark. Our result suggests that the quarkiton state can have a physical relevance since mirrors for photons and, presumably, gluons can be realized in field theories as domain-wall solutions. Furthermore, we find a striking universality: the ratio of the glueton mass to the bulk $0^{++}$ glueball mass - defining the bulk mass gap - matches the ratio of the quarkiton string tension to the string tension between quark and anti-quark in the absence of the mirror, with a value $\mathcal{R} = 0.294(11)$.

Paper number 118:
Title: Aging behavior of the scale-free network
Authors: Ryuho Sekikawa, Hiroshi Watanabe
Abstract: The number of users on social media continues to increase during the growth phase. Still, eventually, the number of new users balances out the number of departing users, and the number of users becomes almost constant. To investigate how network properties change under these conditions, we study the aging behavior of the network. We first prepared the Bianconi-Barab'asi model as the initial network and observed the time evolution of its properties by repeatedly deleting and adding nodes. We defined $\alpha$ as the node deletion parameter and $\beta$ as the node addition parameter. The larger $\alpha$ yields, the higher the probability of deleting a node with a larger degree, and the larger $\beta$ yields, the higher the probability of connecting to a node with a larger degree and fitness. We found that the network cannot reach a steady state in some parameter regions. We investigated the degree distribution of the network that reached a steady state. The scale-free nature of the network broke down in regions where $\alpha$ is large and $\beta$ is small, and the degree distribution became exponential. We also performed percolation analyses. While the phase transition point was zero in the scale-free network, the phase transition point changed finitely in regions with large $\alpha$ and small $\beta$. The phase diagram of whether the degree distribution is power-law or exponential and whether the phase transition point of percolation is zero or finite exhibits a good agreement between the phase boundaries. This study is expected to help control network structure in mature networks.

Paper number 119:
Title: Parametrized topological phases in 1d and T-duality
Authors: Roman Geiko
Abstract: There are families of physical systems that cannot be adiabatically evolved to the trivial system uniformly across the parameter space, even if each system in the family belongs to the trivial phase. The obstruction is measured by higher Berry class. We analyze families of topological systems in 1+1d using families of invertible TQFTs and families of RG fixed states of spin chains. We use the generalized matrix-product states to describe RG fixed points of all translation invariant pure splits states on spin chains. Families of such fixed points correspond to bundles of Hilbert-Schmidt operators. There exists a global MPS parametrization of the family if and only if the latter bundle is trivial. We propose a novel duality of parametrized topological phases which is an avatar of the T-duality in string theory. The duality relates families with different parameter spaces and different higher Berry classes. Mathematically, the T-duality is realized by gauging the circle action on the continuous trace algebra generated by parametrized matrix-product tensors.

Paper number 120:
Title: The surface code under generic $X$-error channels: Statistical mechanics, error thresholds, and errorfield double phenomenology
Authors: Jan Behrends, Benjamin Béri
Abstract: We study the surface code under the most general single-qubit $X$-error channel, encompassing both coherent and incoherent errors. We develop a statistical mechanics mapping for the decoding problem and represent the partition function as a transfer-matrix, i.e., a (1+1)$D$ hybrid quantum circuit. The relevant circuit evolution, as we show, has an efficient matrix product state approximation, using which we develop an algorithm for large-scale syndrome sampling, thus enabling the simulation of these non-Pauli errors away from the limits captured by previous methods. Using these results, we compute maximum-likelihood thresholds and show that error coherence has negligible influence away from the fully coherent limit. We also study how coherence impacts information-theoretic measures like the coherent information, which we show to require, for accurate threshold estimates, increasingly large codes upon increasing error coherence and to eventually break down in the fully coherent limit. To interpret the dominant effect of incoherent errors in large codes, we develop a phenomenological errorfield double field theory, which indicates the instability of coherent errors' above-threshold quasi-long-range order to the above-threshold disorder characteristic of bit-flip errors and the suppression of coherence in the logical noise channel.

Paper number 121:
Title: 3d $\mathcal{N}=4$ Mirror Symmetry, TQFTs, and 't Hooft Anomaly Matching
Authors: Mahesh K. N. Balasubramanian, Anindya Banerjee, Matthew Buican, Zhihao Duan, Andrea E. V. Ferrari, Hongliang Jiang
Abstract: Any local unitary 3d $\mathcal{N}=4$ superconformal field theory (SCFT) has a corresponding "universal" relevant deformation that takes it to a gapped phase. This deformation preserves all continuous internal symmetries, $\mathcal{S}$, and therefore also preserves any 't Hooft anomalies supported purely in $\mathcal{S}$. We describe the resulting phase diagram in the case of SCFTs that arise as the endpoints of renormalization group flows from 3d $\mathcal{N}=4$ Abelian gauge theories with any number of $U(1)$ gauge group factors and arbitrary integer charges for the matter fields. We argue that the universal deformations take these QFTs to Abelian fractional quantum Hall states in the infrared (IR), and we explain how to match 't Hooft anomalies between the non-topological ultraviolet theories and the IR topological quantum field theories (TQFTs). Along the way, we give a proof that 3d $\mathcal{N}=4$ mirror symmetry of our Abelian gauge theories descends to a duality of these TQFTs. Finally, using our anomaly matching discussion, we describe how to connect, via the renormalization group, abstract local unitary 3d $\mathcal{N}=4$ SCFTs with certain 't Hooft anomalies for their internal symmetries to IR phases (partially) described by Abelian spin Chern-Simons theories.

Paper number 122:
Title: Investigating layer-selective transfer learning of QAOA parameters for Max-Cut problem
Authors: Francesco Aldo Venturelli, Sreetama Das, Filippo Caruso
Abstract: Quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA) is a variational quantum algorithm (VQA) ideal for noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) processors, and is highly successful for solving combinatorial optimization problems (COPs). It has been observed that the optimal variational parameters obtained from one instance of a COP can be transferred to another instance, producing sufficiently satisfactory solutions for the latter. In this context, a suitable method for further improving the solution is to fine-tune a subset of the transferred parameters. We numerically explore the role of optimizing individual QAOA layers in improving the approximate solution of the Max-Cut problem after parameter transfer. We also investigate the trade-off between a good approximation and the required optimization time when optimizing transferred QAOA parameters. These studies show that optimizing a subset of layers can be more effective at a lower time-cost compared to optimizing all layers.

Paper number 123:
Title: The FlEye camera: Sampling the joint distribution of natural scenes and motion
Authors: Charles J. Edelson, Paul Smith, Sima Setayeshgar, William Bialek, Rob R. de Ruyter van Steveninck
Abstract: To make efficient use of limited physical resources, the brain must match its coding and computational strategies to the statistical structure of input signals. An attractive testing ground for these principles is the problem of motion estimation in the fly visual system: we understand the optics of the compound eye, have a quantitative description of input signals and noise from the retina, and can record from output neurons that encode estimates of different velocity components. Furthermore, recent work provides a nearly complete wiring diagram of the intervening circuitry. What is missing is a characterization of the visual signals and motions that flies encounter in a natural context. We attack this directly with the development of a specialized camera that matches the high temporal resolution, optical properties, and spectral sensitivity of the fly's eye; inertial motion sensors provide ground truth about rotations and translations through the world. We describe the design, construction, and performance characteristics of this FlEye camera. To illustrate the opportunities created by this instrument we use data on movies and motion to construct optimal local motion estimators that can be compared with the responses of the fly's motion sensitive neurons.

Paper number 124:
Title: Quantum tunneling and its absence in deep wells and strong magnetic fields
Authors: Charles L. Fefferman, Jacob Shapiro, Michael I. Weinstein
Abstract: We present new results on quantum tunneling between deep potential wells, in the presence of a strong constant magnetic field. We construct a family of double well potentials containing examples for which the low-energy eigenvalue splitting vanishes, and hence quantum tunneling is eliminated. Further, by deforming within this family, the magnetic ground state can be made to transition from symmetric to anti-symmetric. However, for typical double wells in a certain regime, tunneling is not suppressed, and we provide a lower bound for the eigenvalue splitting.

Paper number 125:
Title: Lattice random walks and quantum A-period conjecture
Authors: Li Gan
Abstract: We derive explicit closed-form expressions for the generating function $C_N(A)$, which enumerates classical closed random walks on square and triangular lattices with $N$ steps and a signed area $A$, characterized by the number of moves in each hopping direction. This enumeration problem is mapped to the trace of powers of anisotropic Hofstadter-like Hamiltonian and is connected to the cluster coefficients of exclusion particles: exclusion strength parameter $g = 2$ for square lattice walks, and a mixture of $g = 1$ and $g = 2$ for triangular lattice walks. By leveraging the intrinsic link between the Hofstadter model and high energy physics, we propose a conjecture connecting the above signed area enumeration $C_N(A)$ in statistical mechanics to the quantum A-period of associated toric Calabi-Yau threefold in topological string theory: square lattice walks correspond to local $\mathbb{F}_0$ geometry, while triangular lattice walks are associated with local $\mathcal{B}_3$.

Paper number 126:
Title: Gravitational EFT for dissipative open systems
Authors: Pak Hang Chris Lau, Kanji Nishii, Toshifumi Noumi
Abstract: We elaborate on the effective field theory (EFT) construction for dissipative open systems coupled to dynamical gravity, in light of recent developments on the EFT of dissipative hydrodynamics (HydroEFT). Our construction is based on the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism and its symmetries as well as microscopic unitarity. A key aspect of dynamical gravity is that gravity couples to all degrees of freedom universally, hence the EFT has to take into account the energy-momentum tensor of the environment to which the energy escapes from the dissipative system of interest. We incorporate this effect by modeling the environment based on HydroEFT, assuming validity of the derivative expansion of the environment sector. For illustration, we apply our EFT recipe to a dissipative scalar field coupled to dynamical gravity that can be used, e.g., for dissipative inflation. In particular we quantify impacts of fluctuations in the environment sector on the scalar dynamics. We also apply the same framework to dissipative gravity, discussing dissipative gravitational waves and the generalized second law of black hole thermodynamics.

Paper number 127:
Title: Particle-Soliton Degeneracy in 2D Quantum Chromodynamics
Authors: Clay Cordova, Diego García-Sepúlveda, Nicholas Holfester
Abstract: Quantum chromodynamics in two spacetime dimensions admits a finite non-invertible symmetry described mathematically by a fusion category. This symmetry is spontaneously broken at long distances, leading to distinct vacua. When the theory has a mass gap, the spectrum is therefore characterized by particle excitations above a single vacuum and soliton sectors interpolating between vacua. We use anyon condensation and the representation theory of fusion categories to obtain exact results about this spectrum, exhibiting the allowed multiplets. Often, particles and solitons are in the same representation and therefore must have equal masses. Furthermore, the fusion category symmetry frequently implies the existence of certain stable states in the spectrum. The resulting degeneracies are encoded in quiver diagrams where nodes are vacua and arrows are excited states.

Paper number 128:
Title: Sparse chaos in cortical circuits
Authors: Rainer Engelken, Michael Monteforte, Fred Wolf
Abstract: Nerve impulses, the currency of information flow in the brain, are generated by an instability of the neuronal membrane potential dynamics. Neuronal circuits exhibit collective chaos that appears essential for learning, memory, sensory processing, and motor control. However, the factors controlling the nature and intensity of collective chaos in neuronal circuits are not well understood. Here we use computational ergodic theory to demonstrate that basic features of nerve impulse generation profoundly affect collective chaos in neuronal circuits. Numerically exact calculations of Lyapunov spectra, Kolmogorov-Sinai-entropy, and upper and lower bounds on attractor dimension show that changes in nerve impulse generation in individual neurons moderately impact information encoding rates but qualitatively transform phase space structure. Specifically, we find a drastic reduction in the number of unstable manifolds, Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy, and attractor dimension. Beyond a critical point, marked by the simultaneous breakdown of the diffusion approximation, a peak in the largest Lyapunov exponent, and a localization transition of the leading covariant Lyapunov vector, networks exhibit sparse chaos: prolonged periods of near stable dynamics interrupted by short bursts of intense chaos. Analysis of large, more realistically structured networks supports the generality of these findings. In cortical circuits, biophysical properties appear tuned to this regime of sparse chaos. Our results reveal a close link between fundamental aspects of single-neuron biophysics and the collective dynamics of cortical circuits, suggesting that nerve impulse generation mechanisms are adapted to enhance circuit controllability and information flow.

Paper number 129:
Title: The Future of the Correlated Electron Problem
Authors: A. Alexandradinata, N.P. Armitage, Andrey Baydin, Wenli Bi, Yue Cao, Hitesh J. Changlani, Eli Chertkov, Eduardo H. da Silva Neto, Luca Delacretaz, Ismail El Baggari, G.M. Ferguson, William J. Gannon, Sayed Ali Akbar Ghorashi, Berit H. Goodge, Olga Goulko, G. Grissonnanche, Alannah Hallas, Ian M. Hayes, Yu He, Edwin W. Huang, Anshul Kogar, Divine Kumah, Jong Yeon Lee, A. Legros, Fahad Mahmood, Yulia Maximenko, Nick Pellatz, Hryhoriy Polshyn, Tarapada Sarkar, Allen Scheie, Kyle L. Seyler, Zhenzhong Shi, Brian Skinner, Lucia Steinke, K. Thirunavukkuarasu, Thaís Victa Trevisan, Michael Vogl, Pavel A. Volkov, Yao Wang, Yishu Wang, Di Wei, Kaya Wei, Shuolong Yang, Xian Zhang, Ya-Hui Zhang, Liuyan Zhao, Alfred Zong
Abstract: A central problem in modern condensed matter physics is the understanding of materials with strong electron correlations. Despite extensive work, the essential physics of many of these systems is not understood and there is very little ability to make predictions in this class of materials. In this manuscript we share our personal views on the major open problems in the field of correlated electron systems. We discuss some possible routes to make progress in this rich and fascinating field. This manuscript is the result of the vigorous discussions and deliberations that took place at Johns Hopkins University during a three-day workshop January 27, 28, and 29, 2020 that brought together six senior scientists and 46 more junior scientists. Our hope, is that the topics we have presented will provide inspiration for others working in this field and motivation for the idea that significant progress can be made on very hard problems if we focus our collective energies.

Paper number 130:
Title: Phase Thermalization: from Fermi Liquid to Incoherent Metal
Authors: Pinaki Banerjee, Bidisha Chakrabarty, Swapnamay Mondal
Abstract: When a system consists of a large subsystem (bath) and a small one (probe), thermalization implies induction of temperature of the bath onto the probe. If both the bath and the probe are described by same microscopic Hamiltonian, thermalization further entails that the probe imbibes the phase of the bath. We refer to this phenomenon as {\it phase thermalization}. However, it is not clear whether this phenomenon is realizable when the probe and the bath are described by different microscopic Hamiltonians. We show {\it phase thermalization} is possible even when the microscopic Hamiltonians differ significantly. We provide an explicit example, where the probe is a Fermi liquid realized by a Majorana chain with $n \gg 1$ fermions per site interacting through random hopping and the bath is an incoherent metal described by another Majorana chain with $N > n$ fermions per site interacting through arbitrarily long range random four-fermion interaction. In deep infrared (\emph{i.e.} at very low energies), the probe turns into an incoherent metal, with Lyapunov spectrum and diffusion coefficient identical to the bath.

Paper number 131:
Title: Kondo $s$-$d$ exchange in the CuO$_2$ plane as the long sought interaction determining $T_c$ in cuprates
Authors: Todor M. Mishonov, Albert M. Varonov
Abstract: The well-known Pavarini et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 047003 (2001)] correlation between the critical temperature $T_{c,\,\mathrm{max}}$ and the shape of the Fermi contour of the optimally hole-doped cuprates is explained within the framework of the BCS theory with Kondo exchange interaction incorporated as a pairing mechanism. The strong influence of the relative position of the Cu4$s$ level with respect to the Cu3$d_{x^2-y^2}$ level on the critical temperature $T_c$ reveals why the $s$-$d$ hybridization of the conduction band is so important. This hybridization is proportional to the $s$-$d$ exchange scattering amplitude between the conduction electrons -- the mechanism of d-wave pairing in the CuO$_2$ plane. In other words the Kondo interaction considered as a pairing mechanism in the CuO$_2$ plane gives a natural explanation of the correlation between the critical temperature and the shape of the Fermi contour. We have a hint that possibly the long sought pairing mechanism has possibly been found and the Kondo exchange interaction as a property of strongly correlated quantum matter deserves further attention in the physics of layered cuprates.

Paper number 132:
Title: Polymer networks which locally rotate to accommodate stresses, torques, and deformation
Authors: Matthew Grasinger
Abstract: Polymer network models construct the constitutive relationships of a broader polymer network from the behavior of a single polymer chain (e.g. viscoelastic response to applied forces, applied electromagnetic fields, etc.). Network models have been used for multiscale phenomena in a variety of contexts such as rubber elasticity, soft multifunctional materials, biological materials, and even the curing of polymers. For decades, a myriad of polymer network models have been developed with differing numbers of chains, arranged in different ways, and with differing symmetries. To complicate matters further, there are also competing assumptions for how macroscopic variables (e.g. deformation) are related to individual chains within the network model. In this work, we propose a simple, intuitive assumption for how the network locally rotates relative to applied loading (e.g. stresses, external fields) and show that this assumption unifies many of the disparate polymer network models--while also recovering one of the most successful models for rubber elasticity, the Arruda-Boyce $8$-chain model. The new assumption is then shown to make more intuitive predictions (than prior models) for stimuli-responsive networks with orientational energies (e.g. electroactive polymers), which is significant for shape morphing and designing high degree of freedom actuators (e.g. for soft robotics). Lastly, we unveil some surprising consequences of the new model for the phases of multistable biopolymer and semi-crystalline networks.

Paper number 133:
Title: Continuous Wigner-Mott transition at $\nu=1/5$
Authors: Thomas G. Kiely, Debanjan Chowdhury
Abstract: Electrons can organize themselves into charge-ordered states to minimize the effects of long-ranged Coulomb interactions. In the presence of a lattice, commensurability constraints lead to the emergence of incompressible Wigner-Mott insulators at various rational electron fillings, $\nu~=p/q$. The mechanism for quantum fluctuation-mediated melting of the Mott insulators with increasing electron kinetic energy remains an outstanding problem. Here, using matrix product state techniques, we analyze the bandwidth-tuned transition out of the Wigner-Mott insulator at $\nu=1/5$ in an extended Hubbard model on infinite cylinders of varying circumference. For the two-leg ladder, the transition from the Mott insulator to the Luttinger liquid proceeds via a distinct intermediate phase with gapless Cooper-pairs and gapped electronic excitations. The resulting Luther-Emery liquid is the analog of a strongly fluctuating superconductor. We place these results in the context of a low-energy bosonization based theory for the transition. On the five-leg cylinder, we provide numerical evidence for a direct continuous transition between the Wigner-Mott insulator and a metallic phase across which the spin and charge-gaps vanish simultaneously. We comment on the connections to ongoing experiments in dual-gated bilayer moiré transition metal dichalcogenide materials.

Paper number 134:
Title: Collective epithelial migration mediated by the unbinding of hexatic defects
Authors: Dimitrios Krommydas, Livio Nicola Carenza, Luca Giomi
Abstract: Collective cell migration in epithelia relies on cell intercalation: a local remodelling of the cellular network that allows neighbouring cells to swap their positions. Unlike foams and passive cellular fluid, in epithelial intercalation these rearrangements crucially depend on activity. During these processes, the local geometry of the network and the contractile forces generated therein conspire to produce a burst of remodelling events, which collectively give rise to a vortical flow at the mesoscopic length scale. In this article we formulate a continuum theory of the mechanism driving this process, built upon recent advances towards understanding the hexatic (i.e. $6-$fold ordered) structure of epithelial layers. Using a combination of active hydrodynamics and cell-resolved numerical simulations, we demonstrate that cell intercalation takes place via the unbinding of topological defects, naturally initiated by fluctuations and whose late-times dynamics is governed by the interplay between passive attractive forces and active self-propulsion. Our approach sheds light on the structure of the cellular forces driving collective migration in epithelia and provides an explanation of the observed extensile activity of in vitro epithelial layers.

Paper number 135:
Title: Flat bands and superconductivity induced by periodic strain in monolayer graphene
Authors: Jingyao Meng, Runyu Ma, Tianxing Ma, Hai-Qing Lin
Abstract: Superconductivity in single-layer graphene has attracted considerable interest. Here, using the determinant quantum Monte Carlo method, we study transitions of superconductivity and magnetism in a monolayer graphene with a special periodic strain. Consistent with experiments, the deformation accumulates a series of flat bands, whose robustness under interaction is verified through electron localization in real space. During the reconstruction of the band structure, the superconductivity appears in flat band range with next-nearest neighbor $d+id$ pairing symmetry dominating other modes and is accompanied by ferromagnetism caused by symmetry breaking. We also demonstrate that the strain-induced symmetry breaking would accumulate an energy-gap antiferromagnetic insulating phase at half filling even under the limitation of not strong enough interaction, which shows its potential as a platform that exhibits strongly correlated phenomena.

Paper number 136:
Title: Unconventional Rashba spin splitting and persistent spin helices based on SU(2) symmetry in PtSe$_2$ nanoribbons
Authors: Bo-Wen Yu, Bang-Gui Liu
Abstract: 2D materials can host interesting physics and have important applications in various fields. Recent experiment shows that monolayer PtSe$_2$ nanoflakes with neutral zigzag edges are stable. Here, we study semiconducting stoichiometric PtSe$_2$ nanoribbons with the stable neutral zigzag edges (with $N$ describing different nanoribbon width) through combining detailed first-principles investigation with low-energy model analysis. Our careful analysis of first-principles conduction and valence bands (with the spin-orbits coupling taken into account) indicates that the low-energy bands assume relativistic energy dispersion in an energy window of [-0.2 eV, 0.2eV] (at least) and have large unconventional Rashba spin splitting (for even $N$). Furthermore, it is demonstrated that the low-energy bands can be well described by an effective one-dimensional electron model and the semiconductor gap will remain finite even for large $N$. Most importantly, it is shown that there exists SU(2) spin symmetry in both of the conduction and valence bands for each edge, which implies persistent spin helices (in the spin xy plane) and spin-conserving carrier transport. When the inter-edge interaction becomes weak ($N$ is large enough), a nearly-perfect Dirac fermion system can be achieved through combining the valence and conduction bands. Thus we realize unconventional Rashba splitting, double SU(2) spin symmetry, persistent spin helices/textures, and pure Dirac fermion systems in stable monolayer PtSe$_2$ nanoribbons.

Paper number 137:
Title: Two-dimensional field-effect transistors based on lateral heterojunctions of transition metal dichalcogenides: dissipative quantum transport modeling
Authors: Giuseppe Lovarelli, Fabrizio Mazziotti, Demetrio Logoteta, Giuseppe Iannaccone
Abstract: Reducing the contact resistance of field-effect transistors based on two-dimensional materials is one of the key improvements required to enable the integration of such transistors in an advanced semiconductor manufacturing process. Suitably designed lateral heterojunctions provide an opportunity to independently tailor the contact and channel properties in order to optimize contact resistance. Inspired by the recent experimental demonstration of a two-dimensional $p$-type Schottky barrier, here we use quantum transport simulations to estimate the performance of $p$-type transistors in which the channel consists of a lateral heterostructure of NbS$_2$/MoS$_2$/NbS$_2$ (semimetal-semiconductor-semimetal). We find that the gate alignment with the channel is a critical design parameter, strongly influencing the capability of the gate to modulate the Schottky barrier at the MoS$_2$/NbS$_2$ interface. This effect is also found to significantly affect the scaling behavior of the device.

Paper number 138:
Title: Phase Switch Driven by the Hidden Half-Ice, Half-Fire State in a Ferrimagnet
Authors: Weiguo Yin, A. M. Tsvelik
Abstract: The notion of "half fire, half ice" was recently introduced to describe an exotic macroscopic ground-state degeneracy emerging in a ferrimagnet under the critical magnetic field, in which the "hot" spins are fully disordered on the sublattice with smaller magnetic moments and the "cold" spins are fully ordered on the sublattice with larger magnetic moments. Here we further point out that this state has a twin named "half ice, half fire" in which the hot and cold spins switch positions. The new state is an excited state -- thus hidden in the ground-state phase diagram -- and is robust with respect to the interactions that destroy the half fire, half ice state. We demonstrate with exact results how this hidden state can drive phase switching at desirable finite temperature, even for the one-dimensional Ising model where phase transition at finite temperature is forbidden. We suggest that our findings may open a new door to the understanding and controlling of phase competition and transition in unconventional frustrated systems.

Paper number 139:
Title: Anomalous entropy-driven kinetics of dislocation nucleation
Authors: Soumendu Bagchi, Danny Perez
Abstract: The kinetics of dislocation reactions, such as dislocation multiplication, controls the plastic deformation in crystals beyond their elastic limit, therefore critical mechanisms in a number of applications in materials science. We present a series of large-scale molecular dynamics simulations that shows that one such type of reactions, the nucleation of dislocation at free surfaces, exhibit extremely unconventional kinetics, including unexpectedly large nucleation rates under compression, very strong entropic stabilization under tension, as well as strong non-Arrhenius behavior. These unusual kinetics are quantitatively rationalized using a variational transition state theory approach coupled with an efficient numerical scheme for the estimation of vibrational entropy changes. These results highlight the need for a variational treatment of the kinetics to quantitatively capture dislocation reaction kinetics, especially at low-to-moderate strains where large deformations are required to activate reactions. These observations suggest possible explanations to previously observed unconventional deformation kinetics in both molecular dynamics simulations and experiments.

Paper number 140:
Title: Defect versus defect: stationary states of single file marching in periodic landscapes with road blocks
Authors: Atri Goswami, Rohn Chatterjee, Sudip Mukherjee
Abstract: Totally asymmetric simple exclusion process (TASEP) sets the paradigm for one-dimensional driven single file motion. We study a periodic TASEP with two ``road blocks'' or defects of different kinds, one point and another extended, across which particle flows are inhibited. We show how the interplay between particle number conservation and competition between the defects lead to inhomogeneous steady states with localised domain walls (LDW). The LDW locations jump discontinuously, indicating a discontinuous transition between these LDW states, as the system passes from being controlled by one defect to the other. When the defects are ``competing'', instead of an LDW a pair of delocalised domain walls appear, none of which can penetrate the extended defect. A minimum current principle can be used to identify the dominant defect that controls the domain wall formations. Our results should be important in diverse systems, ranging from protein synthesis by ribosomes in biological cells to urban traffic networks.

Paper number 141:
Title: Universal energy-speed-accuracy trade-offs in driven nonequilibrium systems
Authors: Jérémie Klinger, Grant M. Rotskoff
Abstract: Physical systems driven away from equilibrium by an external controller dissipate heat to the environment; the excess entropy production in the thermal reservoir can be interpreted as a "cost" to transform the system in a finite time. The connection between measure theoretic optimal transport and dissipative nonequilibrium dynamics provides a language for quantifying this cost and has resulted in a collection of "thermodynamic speed limits", which argue that the minimum dissipation of a transformation between two probability distributions is directly proportional to the rate of driving. Thermodynamic speed limits rely on the assumption that the target probability distribution is perfectly realized, which is almost never the case in experiments or numerical simulations. Here, we address the ubiquitous situation in which the external controller is imperfect. As a consequence, we obtain a lower bound for the dissipated work in generic nonequilibrium control problems that 1) is asymptotically tight and 2) matches the thermodynamic speed limit in the case of optimal driving. We illustrate these bounds on analytically solvable examples and also develop a strategy for optimizing minimally dissipative protocols based on optimal transport flow matching, a generative machine learning technique. This latter approach ensures the scalability of both the theoretical and computational framework we put forth. Crucially, we demonstrate that we can compute the terms in our bound numerically using efficient algorithms from the computational optimal transport literature and that the protocols that we learn saturate the bound.

Paper number 142:
Title: Cyclic Quantum Annealing: Searching for Deep Low-Energy States in 5000-Qubit Spin Glass
Authors: Hao Zhang, Kelly Boothby, Alex Kamenev
Abstract: Quantum computers promise a qualitative speedup in solving a broad spectrum of practical optimization problems. The latter can be mapped onto the task of finding low-energy states of spin glasses, which is known to be exceedingly difficult. Using D-Wave's 5000-qubit quantum processor, we demonstrate that a recently proposed iterative cyclic quantum annealing algorithm can find deep low-energy states in record time. We also find intricate structures in a low-energy landscape of spin glasses, such as a power-law distribution of connected clusters with a small surface energy. These observations offer guidance for further improvement of the optimization algorithms.

Paper number 143:
Title: Numerical study of neutral and charged microgel suspensions: from single-particle to collective behavior
Authors: Giovanni Del Monte, Emanuela Zaccarelli
Abstract: We perform extensive Molecular Dynamics simulations of an ensemble of realistic microgel particles in swollen conditions in a wide range of packing fractions $\zeta$. We compare neutral and charged microgels, where we consider charges distribution adherent to experimental conditions. Through a detailed analysis of single-particle behavior, we are able to identify the different regimes occurring upon increasing concentration: from shrinking to deformation and interpenetration, always connecting our findings to available experimental observations. We then link these single-particle features to the collective behavior of the suspension, finding evidence of a structural reentrance, that has no counterpart in the dynamics. Hence, while the maximum of the radial distribution function displays a non-monotonic behavior with increasing $\zeta$, the dynamics, quantified by the microgels' mean-squared displacement, always slows down. This behavior, at odds with simple Hertzian model, can be described by a phenomenological multi-Hertzian, which takes into account the enhanced internal stiffness of the core. However, also this model fails when deformation enters into play, whereby more realistic many-body models are required. We are able to unveil the key physical mechanisms, shrinking and deformation, giving rise to the structural reentrance that holds up to very large packing fractions. We further identify key similarities and differences between neutral and charged microgels, for which we detect at high enough $\zeta$ the fusion of charged shells, previously invoked to explain key experimental findings, and responsible for the structural reentrance. Overall, our study establishes a powerful framework to uncover the physics of microgel suspensions, paving the way to tackle different regimes and internal structural architectures, where experimental evidence is still limited.

Paper number 144:
Title: Magnon Landau-Zener tunnelling and spin current generation by electric field
Authors: YuanDong Wang, Zhen-Gang Zhu, Gang Su
Abstract: To control the magnon transport in magnetic systems is of great interest in magnonics. Due to the feasibility of electric field, how to generate and manipulate magnon with pure electrical method is one of the most desired goals. Here we propose that the magnon spin current is generated by applying time-dependent electric field, where the coupling between the magnon and electric field is invoked via Aharonov-Casher effect. In particular, the magnon spin current is dominated by electric field component which perpendicular to the magnetization direction. We apply our theory to 1D ferromagnetic SSH model and show that the generated magnon spin current is closely related to the band geometry. Our findings expands the horizons of magnonics and electric-control-magnon mechanisms.

Paper number 145:
Title: Entropic signature of resonant thermal transport: Ordered form of heat conduction
Authors: Albert Beardo, Prajit Rawte, Chia-Nien Tsai, Mahmoud I. Hussein
Abstract: Thermal transport in crystals is influenced by chemistry, boundaries, and nanostructure. The anharmonic phonon band structure extracted from molecular-dynamics simulations provides an illuminating view of both the type and extent of prevalence of wavelike mechanisms underlying the transport, yet falls short of elucidating the nature of thermal evolution for different phonon regimes. Here we present an analysis framework for the characterization of the entropic signature of the mechanisms induced by boundaries and nanostructure, using both equilibrium and nonequilibrium atomistic simulations. Specifically, we examine the effects of phonon confinement, Bragg scattering, and local resonances on the configurational phase space in room-temperature nanostructured silicon, and quantify how each modifies the rate of entropy production and thermal relaxation. We reveal that the presence of phonon local resonances spanning the full spectrum enables a highly ordered regime of heat conduction to be approached, where irreversible evolution and entropy maximization are severely hindered by extensive mode hybridizations caused by the resonances. This unique regime of transport paves the way for ultra-precise phonon control for a wide range of applications in condensed matter physics.

Paper number 146:
Title: Memory-induced long-range order in dynamical systems
Authors: C. Sipling, Y.-H. Zhang, M. Di Ventra
Abstract: Time non-locality, or memory, is a non-equilibrium property shared by all physical systems. Here, we show that memory is sufficient to induce a phase of spatial long-range order (LRO) even if the system's primary dynamical variables are coupled locally. This occurs when the memory degrees of freedom have slower dynamics than the primary degrees of freedom. In addition, such an LRO phase is non-perturbative, and can be understood through the lens of a correlated percolation transition of the fast degrees of freedom mediated by memory. When the two degrees of freedom have comparable time scales, the length of the effective long-range interaction shortens. We exemplify this behavior with a model of locally coupled spins and a single dynamic memory variable, but our analysis is sufficiently general to suggest that memory could induce a phase of LRO in a much wider variety of physical systems.

Paper number 147:
Title: Spectroscopic origin of giant anomalous Hall effect in an interwoven magnetic kagome metal
Authors: Erjian Cheng, Kaipu Wang, Yiqing Hao, Wenqing Chen, Hengxin Tan, Zongkai Li, Meixiao Wang, Wenli Gao, Di Wu, Shuaishuai Sun, Tianping Ying, Simin Nie, Yiwei Li, Walter Schnelle, Houke Chen, Xingjiang Zhou, Ralf Koban, Yulin Chen, Binghai Yan, Yi-feng Yang, Weida Wu, Zhongkai Liu, Claudia Felser
Abstract: The discovery of a giant anomalous Hall effect (AHE) and its novel mechanism holds significant promise for advancing both fundamental research and practical applications. Magnetic kagome lattice materials are uniquely suited for studying the AHE due to their interplay between electronic structure, topology, and magnetism. However, the geometric frustration inherent in kagome lattices often limits the configuration and tunability of magnetic order. Here, we present a new design strategy for kagome-lattice materials with emergent magnetism, exemplified by the magnetic kagome metal TbTi$_3$Bi$_4$, which features interwoven magnetic Tb zigzag chains and non-magnetic Ti kagome bilayers. This material exhibits a record-high anomalous Hall conductivity (AHC) of 10$^5$ $\Omega^{-1}$ cm$^{-1}$. Spectroscopy measurements reveal a large band folding gap observed via angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy, coexisting spin-density-wave (SDW) order detected through spin-polarized scanning tunneling spectroscopy, and a spiral magnetic order with large magnetic moments identified by neutron diffraction. These findings highlight a strong electron-magnetic coupling between itinerant charges and ordered magnetic moments, offering a spectroscopic explanation for the giant AHC in TbTi$_3$Bi$_4$. This work establishes a pathway for innovative material design strategies, unlocking new possibilities for future exploration and applications in quantum and spintronic technologies.

Paper number 148:
Title: Tailoring the Growth of $\beta$-Tungsten Using Substrate Bias and Its Effect on FMR-Driven Spin Pumping in $\beta$-W/Py Heterostructures
Authors: Abhay Singh Rajawat, Naim Ahmad, Risvana Nasril, Tasneem Sheikh, Mohammad Muhiuddin, Savita Sahu, Ashwani Gautam, A kumar, Md. Imteyaz Ahmad, G.A. Basheed, Mohammad R. Rahman, Waseem Akhtar
Abstract: $\beta$-Tungsten ($\beta$-W), an A15 cubic phase of tungsten, exhibits a giant spin Hall angle compared to its bcc-phase $\alpha$-Tungsten ($\alpha$-W), making high-quality $\beta$-W films desirable for spintronic applications. We report the controlled growth of $\beta$-W films on SiO$_2$/Si substrates via DC sputtering, where substrate bias serves as a critical factor in stabilizing the $\beta$ phase by regulating the energy of deposited atoms. This approach enables the formation of $\beta$-W films over a wide thickness range. Additionally, we studied the spin pumping phenomena in different tungsten phases achieved through substrate bias. Ferromagnetic resonance measurements reveal an enhancement in the magnetic damping (\( \alpha_{\text{eff}} \)) for $\beta$-W/Py compared to $\alpha$-W/Py dominated film. The effective spin mixing conductance (\( g_{\text{eff}}^{\uparrow\downarrow} \)) is found to be higher in $\beta$-W/Py than in $\alpha$-W/Py, which is attributed to variations in the interface structures between these phases. Importantly, the use of substrate bias does not deteriorate the interface quality, underscoring its effectiveness. These findings highlight the potential of substrate bias in thin-film engineering, paving the way for its advanced utilization in spintronic applications.

Paper number 149:
Title: Supersolid Phase in the Diluted Holstein Model
Authors: Jingyao Meng, Yuxi Zhang, Rafael M. Fernandes, Tianxing Ma, R. T. Scalettar
Abstract: The Holstein model on a square lattice at half-filling has a well-established finite temperature phase transition to an insulating state with long range charge density wave (CDW) order. Because this CDW formation suppresses pairing, a superconducting (SC) phase emerges only with doping. In this work, we study the effects of dilution of the local phonon degrees of freedom in the Holstein model while keeping the system at half filling. We find not only that the CDW remains present up to a dilution fraction $f \sim 0.15$, but also that long range pairing is stabilized with increasing $f$, resulting in a {\it supersolid} regime centered at $f \approx 0.10$, where long range diagonal and off-diagonal correlations coexist. Further dilution results in a purely SC phase, and ultimately in a normal metal. Our results provide a new route to the supersolid phase via the introduction of impurities at fixed positions which both increase quantum fluctuations and also are immune to the competing tendency to phase separation often observed in the doped case.

Paper number 150:
Title: Magnetic, thermodynamic, and dynamical properties of the three-dimensional fermionic Hubbard model: A comprehensive Monte Carlo study
Authors: Yu-Feng Song, Youjin Deng, Yuan-Yao He
Abstract: The interplay between quantum and thermal fluctuations can induce rich phenomena at finite temperatures in strongly correlated fermion systems. Here we report a {\it numerically exact} auxiliary-field quantum Monte Carlo (AFQMC) study for the finite-temperature properties of three-dimensional repulsive Hubbard model at half filling. We concentrate on the complete temperature-interaction strength phase diagram of the model, which contains the low-temperature antiferromagnetic (AFM) long-range ordered phase and metal-insulator crossover (MIC) in the paramagnetic phase. Enabling access to unprecedented system sizes up to $20^3$, we achieve highly accurate results of the Néel transition temperature for representative values of on-site interaction $U$ via finite-size analysis of AFM structure factor. To quantitatively characterize the MIC above the Néel transition, we have developed fully new techniques allowing to compute the thermal entropy versus $U$ at fixed temperature and to directly calculate the $U$-derivative of double occupancy in AFQMC simulations. Then combining variously thermodynamic and dynamical observables, we establish an efficient scheme to precisely determine the boundaries for the MIC by cross-checking different observables. We also demonstrate the temperature dependence of many commonly used observables. Away from half filling, we explore the behavior of the sign problem and AFM spin correlation versus hole doping, and demonstrate the persistance of Néel AFM ordered phase to finite doping with limited results.

Paper number 151:
Title: Improved models for ideal Fermi gas and ideal Bose gas using quantum phase space
Authors: Rivo Herivola Manjakamanana Ravelonjato, Ravo Tokiniaina Ranaivoson, Raoelina Andriambololona, Roland Raboanary, Naivo Rabesiranana, Solofoarisina Wilfrid Chrysante
Abstract: In this work, it is shown that improvements can be introduced into the current models of the ideal Fermi gas and the ideal Bose gas to take into account the quantum nature of phase space, which is related to the uncertainty principle. The construction of the improved models is based on the use of the concepts of phase space representation of quantum mechanics and quantum phase space that were introduced and developed recently. The Hamiltonian operator for a gas particle and its eigenstates are first determined, and the use of quantum statistical mechanics leads to the deduction of the thermodynamic properties of the ideal gas itself. The explicit expressions of thermodynamic quantities such as the grand canonical potential, the thermodynamic particle number, the internal energy, the Von Neumann entropy, and the pressure, as well as the thermodynamic state equations corresponding to the improved models, are established for both bosons and fermions. The corrections introduced by these expressions are expected to be particularly significant at low temperatures and for confined volumes. They allow for the highlighting of quantum shape and size effects. It is also shown that the thermodynamic functions and variables are directly related to the quantum statistical variances of the momenta. Well-known relations corresponding to the classical ideal gas model can be recovered from the improved models as asymptotic limits at high temperatures and for large volumes.

Paper number 152:
Title: Higher-order localization landscape theory of Anderson localization
Authors: Sergey E. Skipetrov
Abstract: For a Hamiltonian ${\hat H}$ containing a position-dependent (disordered) potential, we introduce a sequence of landscape functions $u_n(\vec{r})$ obeying ${\hat H} u_n(\vec{r}) = u_{n-1}(\vec{r})$ with $u_0(\vec{r}) = 1$. For $n \to \infty$, $1/v_n(\vec{r}) = u_{n-1}(\vec{r})/u_{n}(\vec{r})$ converges to the lowest eigenenergy $E_1$ of ${\hat H}$ whereas $u_{\infty}(\vec{r})$ yields the corresponding wave function $\psi_1(\vec{r})$. For large but finite $n$, $v_n(\vec{r})$ can be approximated by a piecewise constant function $v_n(\vec{r}) \simeq v_n^{(m)}$ for $\vec{r} \in \Omega_m$ and yields progressively improving estimations of eigenenergies $E_m = 1/v_n^{(m)}$ of locally fundamental eigenstates $\psi_m(\vec{r}) \propto u_{n}(\vec{r})$ in spatial domains $\Omega_m$. These general results are illustrated by a number of examples in one dimension: box potential, sequence of randomly placed infinite potential barriers, smooth and spatially uncorrelated random potentials, quasiperiodic potential, as well as for the uncorrelated random potential in two dimensions.

Paper number 153:
Title: Evidence of relativistic field-derivative torque in nonlinear THz response of magnetization dynamics
Authors: Arpita Dutta, Christian Tzschaschel, Debankit Priyadarshi, Kouki Mikuni, Takuya Satoh, Ritwik Mondal, Shovon Pal
Abstract: Understanding the complete light-spin interactions in magnetic systems is the key to manipulating the magnetization using optical means at ultrafast timescales. The selective addressing of spins by terahertz (THz) electromagnetic fields via Zeeman torque is one of the most successful ultrafast means of controlling magnetic excitations. Here we show that this traditional Zeeman torque on the spins is not sufficient, rather an additional relativistic field-derivative torque is essential to realize the observed magnetization dynamics. We accomplish this by exploring the ultrafast nonlinear magnetization dynamics of rare-earth, Bi-doped iron garnet when excited by two co-propagating THz pulses. First, by exciting the sample with an intense THz pulse and probing the magnetization dynamics using magneto-optical Faraday effect, we find the collective exchange resonance mode between rare-earth and transition metal sublattices at 0.48 THz. We further explore the magnetization dynamics via the THz time-domain spectroscopic means. We find that the observed nonlinear trace of the magnetic response cannot be mapped to the magnetization precession induced by the Zeeman torque, while the Zeeman torque supplemented by an additional field-derivative torque follows the experimental evidences. This breakthrough enhances our comprehension of ultra-relativistic effects and paves the way towards novel technologies harnessing light-induced control over magnetic systems.

Paper number 154:
Title: Shape-controlled Bose-Einstein Condensation
Authors: Cem Kurt, Altug Sisman, Alhun Aydin
Abstract: Size-invariant shape transformation is a geometric technique that allows for a clear separation between quantum size and shape effects by modifying the shape of the confinement domain without altering its size. The impact of shape on the behavior of confined systems is significantly different from that of size, making it an emerging area of research. The recent realization of flat-bottomed optical box traps has further contributed to the study of quantum gases in complex confinement geometries. Here, we propose shape-induced Bose-Einstein condensation at a fixed size, temperature, and density. We investigate the impact of pure quantum shape effects on a non-interacting Bose gas confined within nested square domains, where the shape parameter is defined and controlled by the rotation angle between the inner and outer squares. Our findings reveal that specific heat exhibits an additional low-temperature peak at certain shapes. This work opens new avenues for controlling quantum systems through geometric manipulation and provides insights into the thermodynamic properties of Bose gases under shape-induced quantum effects.

Paper number 155:
Title: Non-Hermitian multiterminal phase-biased Josephson junctions
Authors: Jorge Cayao, Masatoshi Sato
Abstract: We study non-Hermitian Josephson junctions formed by multiple superconductors and discover the emergence of exceptional points entirely determined by the interplay of the distinct superconducting phases and non-Hermiticity due to normal reservoirs. In particular, in Josephson junctions with three and four superconductors, we find stable lines and surfaces of exceptional points protected by non-Hermitian topology and highly tuneable by the superconducting phases. We also discover that, in Josephson junctions formed by laterally coupled superconductors, exceptional points can result from hybridized Andreev bound states and lead to the enhancement of supercurrents controlled by dissipation. Our work unveils the potential of multi-terminal Josephson junctions for realizing higher dimensional topological non-Hermitian superconducting phenomena.

Paper number 156:
Title: Enhanced Polarizability and Tunable Diamagnetic Shifts from Charged Localized Emitters in WSe2 on a Relaxor Ferroelectric
Authors: Qiaohui Zhou, Fei Wang, Ali Soleymani, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Jiang Wei, Xin Lu
Abstract: Strain modulation is a crucial way in engineering nanoscale materials. It is even more important for single photon emitters in layered materials, where strain can create quantum emitters and control their energies. Here we report the localized, charge-enhanced coupling between the charged localized emitters in monolayer tungsten diselenide (WSe2) to the piezoelectric relaxor ferroelectric substrate. In addition to the strain effect, we observe a gigantic polarizability volume with the enhancement factor up to 1010. The enormous polarizability leads to a large Quantum-confined Stark shift under a small variation of electric field, indicating the potential of integrating layered materials with functional substrates for quantum sensing. We further demonstrate the tunable diamagnetic shift and g-factor with strain varying by ~0.05%, which confirms the existence of enhanced interaction between the localized oscillating dipoles and the ferroelectric domains. Our results signify the prospect of charged quantum emitters in layered materials for quantum sciences and technology.

Paper number 157:
Title: Josephson diodes induced by the loop current states
Authors: Qi-Kai Shen, Yi Zhang
Abstract: We study the diode effect of the supercurrent in the Josephson junctions with the loop current states as the tunneling barrier. The loop current states are realized by the Haldane model which preserves the inversion symmetry and thus forbids the diode effect. We demonstrate how the inversion symmetry can be broken in the monolayer and bilayer systems. In the monolayer system, inversion symmetry can be broken by either introducing a sublattice staggered potential for the Haldane model or introducing a modified Haldane model, and in the bilayer system, it can be broken by either staking the two layers with opposite current directions or by directly applying an electric field perpendicular to the layers. We further show that the diode efficiency can be tuned by the interlayer coupling and the strength of the electric field or interlayer voltage. Our results provide another route to realize the Josephson diode effect by breaking the time-reversal symmetry through the loop-current states.

Paper number 158:
Title: Hybrid-Order Topological Phase And Transition in 1H Transition Metal Compounds
Authors: Ning-Jing Yang, Zhigao Huang, Jian-Min Zhang
Abstract: Inspired by recent experimental observations of hybrid topological states [Hossain et al. Nature 628, 527 (2024)], we predict hybrid-order topological insulators in 1H transition metal compounds (TMCs), where both second-order and first-order topological (FOT) states coexist near the Fermi level. Initially, 1H-TMCs exhibit a second-order topological phase due to the d orbital bandgap. Upon coupling of p and d orbitals through the crystal field effect, first-order topological characteristics emerge. This hybrid-order topological phase transition can be tuned via crystal field effects. Combined with first-principles calculations, we illustrate the phase transition with WTe2 and NbSe2. The WTe2 exhibits hybrid-order under ambient conditions, while NbSe2 transitions to hybrid-order under pressure. Additionally, the first-order topological bandgap in the HyOTI demonstrates a strong spin Hall effect. Our findings reveal a hybrid-order topological phase in two-dimensional electron materials and underscore spintronic applications.

Paper number 159:
Title: Enhanced correlations due to ballistic transport
Authors: Damiano De Angelis, Jacopo De Nardis, Stefano Scopa
Abstract: We investigate the nature of density-density correlations in a 1D gas of hard-core particles initially prepared at equilibrium (either at zero or finite temperature) on a semi-infinite line and subsequently let to expand into the other (initially empty) half of the system. Using a combination of analytical techniques based on exact methods and asymptotic hydrodynamic approaches, we discuss the behavior of the gas as its initial temperature varies, and back up our derivations with numerical exact diagonalization of the model. Our findings reveal that, irrespective of the initial temperature, the non-equilibrium behavior of density-density correlations at sufficiently large times is characterized by algebraic decay. Furthermore, we provide analytical results based on quantum generalized hydrodynamics that match with the numerical data both at zero and finite temperature.

Paper number 160:
Title: Coupled spin and valley Hall effects driven by coherent tunneling
Authors: W. Zeng
Abstract: We predict the coexistence of tunneling spin and valley Hall effects when electrons in graphene coherently transmit through a barrier with the broken inversion symmetry and proximity-induced spin-orbit coupling. Due to the rotation of the pseudospin in the tunneling process, the transmitted electrons acquire a finite spin- and valley-dependent backreflection geometric phase when the two interfaces of the barrier are asymmetric. This results in a spin- and valley-dependent skew coherent tunneling, which is responsible for the transverse spin and valley Hall currents. We further demonstrate that the coherent-tunneling assisted charge-spin and charge-valley conversions are highly efficient with large Hall angles. Our work provides a new route for the generation of efficient spin and valley Hall effects, suggesting potential applications for spintronic and valleytronic devices.

Paper number 161:
Title: Transport of magnetically sensitive atoms in a magnetic environment
Authors: D.A. Kumpilov, I.A. Pyrkh, I.S. Cojocaru, P.V. Trofimova, V.A. Khlebnikov, P.A. Aksentsev, A.E. Rudnev, A.M. Ibrahimov, O.I. Blokhin, K.O. Frolov, S.A. Kuzmin, D.V. Gaifutdinov, A.K. Zykova, D.A. Pershin, V.V. Tsyganok, A.V. Akimov
Abstract: Among interesting applications of cold atoms, quantum simulations attract a lot of attention. In this context, rare-earth ultracold atoms are particularly appealing for such simulators due to their numerous Fano-Feshbach resonances and magnetic dipole moments in the ground state. Creating a quantum gas microscope requires a large optical access that may be achieved using transport of atoms between separate vacuum volumes. We demonstrate that in case of the transport of magnetic atoms the magnetic field can be directly measured and adjusted to reduce additional losses after the transport therefore increasing the efficiency of subsequent evaporation cooling. This approach allows to transfer over 85% of the atoms from the main chamber to the scientific chamber, located 38 cm away with moderate laser power of 26 W without atomic polarization decay.

Paper number 162:
Title: Precision of the acoustic control of single photon scattering with semiconductor quantum dots
Authors: Rafał A. Bogaczewicz, Paweł Machnikowski
Abstract: Acoustic modulation of quantum dots allows one to control the scattering of photons. Here we theoretically characterize the degree of this acoustic control in the frequency domain. We formulate the theory of low-intensity resonance fluorescence in the presence of white noise and show that a high level of control is achievable with a two-tone acoustic field for appropriate settings of modulation amplitudes as long as the noise-induced phase diffusion coefficient remains one order of magnitude smaller than the acoustic frequency. In addition, using a quantitative model of optical signal collection, we determine that the acoustic phase must be stable over $\mathbf{10^4}$ to $\mathbf{10^5}$ acoustic periods for efficient control.

Paper number 163:
Title: Collaborative filtering based on nonnegative/binary matrix factorization
Authors: Yukino Terui, Yuka Inoue, Yohei Hamakawa, Kosuke Tatsumura, Kazue Kudo
Abstract: Collaborative filtering generates recommendations based on user-item similarities through rating data, which may involve numerous unrated items. To predict scores for unrated items, matrix factorization techniques, such as nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF), are often employed to predict scores for unrated items. Nonnegative/binary matrix factorization (NBMF), which is an extension of NMF, approximates a nonnegative matrix as the product of nonnegative and binary matrices. Previous studies have employed NBMF for image analysis where the data were dense. In this paper, we propose a modified NBMF algorithm that can be applied to collaborative filtering where data are sparse. In the modified method, unrated elements in a rating matrix are masked, which improves the collaborative filtering performance. Utilizing a low-latency Ising machine in NBMF is advantageous in terms of the computation time, making the proposed method beneficial.

Paper number 164:
Title: Backbone Mediated Electrical Transport in a Double-Stranded DNA
Authors: Sourav Kundu, Siddhartha Lal
Abstract: In the field of DNA nanotechnology, it is common wisdom that charge transport occurs through the {\pi} stacked bases of double-stranded DNA. However, recent experimental findings by Zhuravel et. al. [Nat. Nanotech. 15, 836 (2020)] suggest that electronic transport happens through the backbone channels instead of {\pi}-{\pi} interaction of the nitrogen bases. These new experimental insights call for a detail investigation. In keeping with this, we examine charge transport properties of three characteristic double-stranded DNA sequences (periodic GC, periodic AT and random ATGC sequences) within a tight-binding framework where backbones form the main conduction channels. Using techniques based on the Green function method, we inspect the single-particle density of states and localization properties of DNA in the presence of discontinuities (nicks) along the backbone channels. We also investigate the effect of these nicks on current-voltage response using the Landauer - Buttiker formalism for a two-terminal geometry where the source electrode is attached to one backbone strand and the drain to the other. We observe that the periodic DNA sequence of GC bases is metallic in nature, while the periodic AT sequence and the random ATGC sequence are insulating. Further, the effects of nicks on the transport properties of the periodic GC sequence is interesting: while a single nick on the upper backbone does not affect electronic transport, the addition of a second nick on the lower backbone causes the current to vanish altogether. This is found to be robust against changes in the positions of the nicks, as well as the alternation of the source and drain electrodes.

Paper number 165:
Title: Spin polarization of the two-dimensional electron gas at the EuO/SrTiO$_3$ interface
Authors: Paul Rosenberger (1 and 2), Andri Darmawan (3), Olena Fedchenko (2), Olena Tkach (2), Serhii V. Chernov (4), Dmytro Kutnyakhov (5), Moritz Hoesch (5), Markus Scholz (5), Kai Rossnagel (6 and 7), Rossitza Pentcheva (3), Gerd Schönhense (2), Hans-Joachim Elmers (2), Martina Müller (1) ((1) Fachbereich Physik, Universität Konstanz, Konstanz, Germany, (2) Institut für Physik, Johannes Gutenberg-Universität, Mainz, Germany, (3) Department of Physics and Center for Nanointegration (CENIDE), Universität Duisburg-Essen, Duisburg, Germany, (4) Stony Brook University, Department of Physics and Astronomy, Stony Brook, USA, (5) Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESY, Hamburg, Germany, (6) Institut für Experimentelle und Angewandte Physik, Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Kiel, Germany, (7) Ruprecht Haensel Laboratory, Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron DESY, Hamburg, Germany)
Abstract: Spin-polarized two-dimensional electron gases (2DEGs) are of particular interest for functional oxide electronics applications. The redox-created 2DEG residing on the strontium titanate, SrTiO$_3$ (STO), side of a europium monoxide (EuO)/SrTiO$_3$ (001) interface is expected to be significantly spin-polarized due to the proximity to the strong ($7\,\mu_B/f.u.$) Heisenberg ferromagnet EuO. We apply magnetic circular dichroism in the angular distribution (MCDAD) of photoemitted electrons to investigate whether and how the induced spin polarization of the 2DEG depends on the dimensionality of the overlaying EuO layer. The experimental data are complemented by density functional theory calculations with a Hubbard $U$ term (DFT+$U$). We show that the EuO/STO interfacial 2DEG is spin-polarized even for ultrathin EuO overlayers, starting at an EuO threshold thickness of only two monolayers. Additional EuO monolayers even increase the induced magnetic Ti moment and thus the spin polarization of the 2DEG. Our results and the potential to enhance the magnetic order of EuO by other proximity effects indicate that the EuO/STO (001) interface is an ideal template for creating (multi-)functional spin-polarized 2DEGs for application in oxide electronics.

Paper number 166:
Title: Measurement-induced physics and stochastic dynamics in systems of single-body quasiparticle and many-body microscopic cases
Authors: Chen-Huan Wu
Abstract: In this article, we focus on the measurement-induced physics and stochastic dynamics in the systems of single-body quasiparticle and many-body microscopic cases. In the former case, it shows a smooth evolution from non-Gaussian (Poission or binomial distribution) with local dephasing to Gaussian with global dephasing (quantum to classical) where in late time there is a global symmetry consist of exponentially many pure states due to the suppressed (stochastic) fluctuation and heating; In the latter case, it shows exponentially many distinct (Krylov) sectors due to the fragmentation and dynamical constrain on Hilbert-space.

Paper number 167:
Title: Chiral Light-Matter Interactions with Thermal Magnetoplasmons in Graphene Nanodisks
Authors: Mikkel Have Eriksen, Juan R. Deop-Ruano, Joel D. Cox, Alejandro Manjavacas
Abstract: We investigate the emergence of self-hybridized thermal magnetoplasmons in doped graphene nanodisks at finite temperatures when subjected to an external magnetic field. Using a semianalytical approach, which fully describes the eigenmodes and polarizability of the graphene nanodisks, we show that the hybridization originates from the coupling of transitions between thermally populated Landau levels and localized magnetoplasmon resonances of the nanodisks. Owing to their origin, these modes combine the extraordinary magneto-optical response of graphene with the strong field enhancement of plasmons, making them an ideal tool for achieving strong chiral light-matter interactions, with the additional advantage of being tunable through carrier concentration, magnetic field, and temperature. As a demonstration of their capabilities, we show that the thermal magnetoplasmons supported by an array of graphene nanodisks enable chiral perfect absorption and chiral thermal emission.

Paper number 168:
Title: Mean first-passage time at the origin of a run-and-tumble particle with periodic forces
Authors: Pascal Grange, Linglong Yuan
Abstract: We consider a run-and-tumble particle moving on a half-line with a periodic force field and an absorbing target at the origin. The particle has an internal velocity state that switches between two fixed values at Poisson-distributed times. The particle evolves according to an overdamped Langevin dynamics. The periodic force field is assumed to be such that every point in a given period interval is accessible to the particle. The survival probability of the particle satisfies a backward Fokker--Planck equation. The Laplace transform of this equation yields systems of equations satisfied by the moments of the first-passage time of the particle at the origin. The mean first passage time has already been calculated assuming that the particle reaches the origin in finite time almost surely. We calculate the exit probability of the particle, given its initial position and velocity. We obtain an integral condition on the force, under which the exit probability is less than one. If the force field is a constant drift, the condition is satisfied by positive values of the drift. The mean first-passage time of the particle (averaged over trajectories that reach the origin) is obtained in closed form in both regimes.

Paper number 169:
Title: Aggregation of hydrophobic-amphiphilic block copolymers
Authors: S. A. Pavlenko, E. N. Govorun
Abstract: We analyze the aggregation of locally amphiphilic copolymers with blocky architecture and uniformly distributed amphiphilic moieties in terms of a mean-field theory. Locally amphiphilic structure is characteristic of many thermoresponsive polymers, both linear and grafted, which endows them with local surface activity. Self-assembly of such copolymers exhibits a rich diversity of morphologies, which are analyzed in the present work in the limit of high surface activity of amphiphilic dimers with solvophilic/polar pendants. Depending on the composition and architecture of the copolymer and sizes and interaction parameters of the solvophilic/polar pendants, we build morphological diagrams of copolymer solutions. Copolymers with small volume pendants form precipitates or large aggregates with internal voids containing these pendants. For moderate volume pendants, a lamellar structure (or large vesicles) is observed at smaller fractions of amphiphilic monomer units in the chain and micelles are formed at larger fractions of these units. The sizes and shapes of micelles depend on the monomer distribution along the chain, and the blocky architecture favors the existence of single spherical micelles or spherical particles that constitute compound micelles. For sufficiently large polar pendants, copolymers of both types mainly form granular branched compound micelles. The distance at which adjacent hydrophobic and polar groups are located in a chain determines the size of domains and particles formed by locally amphiphilic blocks or chains. Our predictions explain the existence of dense multicore complex micelles consisting of beads of several tens of nanometers size and other structures such as disc-shaped micelles.

Paper number 170:
Title: Exploring lattice thermal conductivity models via interpretable deep learning to accelerate the discovery of novel materials
Authors: Yuxuan Zeng, Wei Cao, Yijing Zuo, Tan Peng, Yue Hou, Ziyu Wang, Ling Miao, Jing Shi
Abstract: Lattice thermal conductivity, being integral to thermal transport properties, is indispensable to advancements in areas such as thermoelectric materials and thermal management. Traditional methods, such as Density Functional Theory and Molecular Dynamics, require significant computational resources, posing challenges to the high-throughput prediction of lattice thermal conductivity. Although AI-driven material science has achieved fruitful progress, the trade-off between accuracy and interpretability in machine learning continues to hinder further advancements. This study utilizes interpretable deep learning techniques to construct a rapid prediction framework that enables both qualitative assessments and quantitative predictions, accurately forecasting the thermal transport properties of three novel materials. Furthermore, interpretable deep learning offers analytically grounded physical models while integrating with sensitivity analysis to uncover deeper theoretical insights.

Paper number 171:
Title: Moving Protocol of Majorana Corner Modes in a Superconducting 2D Weyl Semimetal Heterostructure
Authors: Ching-Kai Chiu, Yueh-Ting Yao, Tay-Rong Chang, Guang Bian
Abstract: Second-order topological superconductors host Majorana corner modes (MCMs), which are confined to specific corners of the system. This spatial restriction presents challenges for manipulating and relocating MCMs. We propose a novel protocol for dynamically controlling the movement of time-reversal symmetric MCMs in a heterostructure consisting of a 2D Weyl semimetal and a $d$-wave superconductor. By leveraging the energy asymmetry of topological edge states in the 2D Weyl semimetal, the position of MCMs can be effectively tuned via chemical potential adjustments. We further introduce a device architecture that integrates multiple heterostructure blocks, each controlled by independent gate voltages, to enable the adiabatic movement and exchange of MCMs. This approach demonstrates a robust mechanism for Majorana manipulation and provides a scalable framework for future experimental studies of topological quantum computation.

Paper number 172:
Title: Impurity effects in twisted carbon nanotubes
Authors: Yuriy G. Pogorelov, Volodymyr Turkowski, Vadim M. Loktev
Abstract: We consider electronic spectra of twisted carbon nanotubes and their perturbation by impurity atoms absorbed at different positions on nanotube surface within the framework of Anderson hybrid model. A special attention is given to the cases when 1D Weyl (massless Dirac) modes are present in the nanotube spectrum and their hybridization with localized impurity states produces, with growing impurity concentration c, onset of a mobility gap near the impurity level and then opening, at yet higher c, of some narrow range of delocalized states within this mobility gap. Such behaviors are compared with similar effects in the previously studied 2D graphene, carbon nanoribbons, and non-twisted carbon nanotubes. Some possible practical applications are discussed.

Paper number 173:
Title: Quantized Hall conductivity in monolayer 1T^{\prime}-MoS_2
Authors: Mohammad Mortezaei Nobahari, Mahmood Rezaei Roknabadi
Abstract: We investigate the topological properties of 1T$^{\prime}$-MoS$_2$, focusing on spin-valley-resolved Hall conductivity, Chern numbers, Berry curvature, and Nernst coefficient. Spin-valley-dependent electronic states with distinct spin textures offer potential applications in spintronic devices. Our calculations reveal helical and chiral spin texture for spin-up, and spin-down respectively, by opposing electron and hole orientation in the conduction and valence bands. The Berry curvature behavior in the vicinity of the Dirac points for different values of $\alpha$, reveals a sign change and topological phase transitions in 1T$^{\prime}$-MoS$_2$. When $\alpha<1$, the system exhibits the Quantum Spin Hall Insulator (QSHI) phase ($C_s=1$), characterized by a non-trivial gap and helical edge mode. $\alpha>1$ is responsible for a topological phase transition to the band insulator (BI) ($C_v=1$) and killing the edge modes. Also when $\alpha=1$ the Fermi energy falls within the bands, consequently, the Chern number is not defined. Calculations of spin Nernst (SNC), valley Nernst (VNC), and total Nernst coefficients (TNC) further confirm the QSHI-to-BI phase transition under varying $\alpha$ and doping. These results provide comprehensive insights into the tunable topological properties of 1T$^{\prime}$-MoS$_2$ and their implications for spintronic and valleytronic applications.

Paper number 174:
Title: Energy landscapes of small SK spin glasses
Authors: Imre Kondor, Gábor Papp
Abstract: We study the $\pm J$ SK model for small $N$'s up to $N=9$. We sort the $2^{N(N-1)/2}$ possible realizations of the coupling matrix into equivalence classes according to the gauge symmetry and permutation symmetry and determine the energy spectra for each of these classes. We also study the energy landscape in these small systems and find that the elements of the hierarchic organization of ground states %and higher energy local minima start to appear in some samples already for $N$'s as small as 6.

Paper number 175:
Title: Thermopower across Fermi-volume-changing quantum phase transitions without symmetry breaking
Authors: Peter Lunts, Aavishkar Patel, Subir Sachdev
Abstract: We describe the evolution of low-temperature thermopower across Fermi-volume-changing quantum phase transitions in Kondo lattice models without symmetry breaking. This transition moves from a heavy Fermi liquid with a conventional Luttinger-volume large Fermi surface to a 'FL*' state, characterized by a small Fermi surface and a spin liquid with fractionalized excitations. The onset of the large Fermi surface phase is driven by the condensation of a Higgs field that carries a unit gauge charge under an emergent U(1) gauge field. We consider the case with spatially random Kondo exchange, as this leads to strange metal behavior in electrical transport. We find a large asymmetric thermopower. Our findings are consistent with recent observations in heavy fermion compounds (Z.-Y. Cao et al., arXiv:2408.13604), and describe an enhancement of thermopower on the large Fermi surface side as well as a non-monotonic behavior on the small Fermi surface side. Our results also apply to single-band Hubbard models and the pseudogap transition in the cuprates. In the ancilla framework, single-band models exhibit an inverted Kondo lattice transition: the small Fermi surface pseudogap state corresponds to the condensed Higgs state. This inversion results in an enhancement of thermopower on the pseudogap side in our theory, consistent with observations in the cuprates (C. Collignon et al., Phys. Rev. B 103, 155102 (2021), arXiv:2011.14927; A. Gourgout et al., Phys. Rev. X 12, 011037 (2022), arXiv:2106.05959). We argue that these observations support a non-symmetry-breaking Fermi-volume-changing transition as the underlying description of the onset of the pseudogap in the cuprates.

Paper number 176:
Title: Altermagnetism and compensated ferrimagnetism in MnPX$_3$-based (X = S or Se) heterostructures
Authors: Yunsong Liu, Yanlong Liu, Xuefei Wang, Nan Xia, Guifang Xu, Yi Wang, Haifeng Wang, Weiwei Gao, Jijun Zhao
Abstract: Recent research interests in the non-relativistic spin splitting of electronic band structures have led to the exploration of altermagnets and other compensated magnets. Here, we show that various types of non-relativistic spin splitting can be robustly induced by constructing Van der Waals heterostructures consisting of intra-plane anti-ferromagnetic materials and suitable substrates. Using MnPX$_3$ (X = S or Se) as an example, which has a Néel magnetic order, we demonstrate that altermagnetic spin splitting can arise in the AA-stacking MnPX$_3$/MPX$_3$ (M = Cd, Mg, or Zn) heterostructures, while compensated ferrimagnetic splitting can emerge in the AB-stacking configurations. By combining with a Van der Waals ferroelectric substrate like CuInP2S6, MnPX3 can show switchable spin splitting and spin-related properties that depend on its band structures and ferroelectric polarization, which can be non-volatilely reversed by applying an out-of-plane electric field. Our study provides a route to induce tunable non-relativistic spin splitting in experimentally synthesizable two-dimensional magnets.

Paper number 177:
Title: Electron and hole energy spectrum of non-concentric spherical core-shell quantum dot under an externally applied electric field
Authors: R. Ya. Leshko, I. V. Bilynskyi, O. V. Leshko, M. Yu. Popov, A. O. Ocheretyanyi
Abstract: A model of the non-concentric spherical core-shell quantum dot under the influence of an externally applied electric field was proposed. It was established that the energy spectrum of both the electron and the hole depends on the intensity of the electric field as well as on the specific location of the core within the quantum dot. The phenomenon of energy level splitting and degeneration was analyzed in detail. Additionally, the variations in the optical gap were determined and expressed as a function of the applied electric field strength and the position of the core in the quantum dot.

Paper number 178:
Title: Critical, compensation and hysteresis behaviors studies in the ferrimagnetic Blume-Capel model with mixed half-integer spin-(3/2, 7/2): Exact recursion relations calculations
Authors: M. Kake, S. I. V. Hontinfinde, M. Karimou, R. Houenou, E. Albayrak, R. A. A. Yessoufou, A. Kpadonou
Abstract: The exact recursion relations are used to study the mixed half-integer spin-(3/2, 7/2) Blume-Capel Ising ferrimagnetic system on the Bethe lattice. Ground-state phase diagrams are computed in the $({D_{A}}/{q|J|}, {D_{B}}/{q|J|})$ plane to reveal different possible ground states of the model. Using the thermal changes of the order-parameters, interesting temperature dependent phase diagrams are constructed in the ($D_{A}/|J|$, $kT/|J|$), ($D_{B}/|J|$, $kT/|J|$) planes as well as in the ($D/|J|$, $kT/|J|$) plane where $D=D_A=D_B$. It is revealed that the system exhibits first- and second-order phase transitions and compensation temperatures for specific model parameter values. Under the constraint of an external magnetic field, the model also produces multi-hysteresis behaviors as single, double and triple hysteresis cycles. Particularly, the impacts of the ferrimagnetic coupling $J$ on the remanent magnetization and the coercitive fields for selected values of the other physical parameters of the system are pointed out. Our numerical results are qualitatively consistent with those reported in the literature.

Paper number 179:
Title: Ising model in the R\'{e}nyi statistics: the finite size effects
Authors: V. V. Ignatyuk, A. P. Moina
Abstract: The Rényi statistics is applied for a description of finite size effects in the 1D Ising model. We calculate the internal energy of the spin chain and the system temperature using the Rényi distribution and postulate them to be equal to their counterparts, obtained in the microcanonical ensemble. It allows us to self-consistently derive the Rényi $q$-index and the Lagrange parameter $T$ to relate them to the physically observed system temperature $T_{\rm ph}$, and to show that the entropic phase transitions are possible in a broad temperature domain. We have also studied the temperature dependence of the internal energy $U(T_{\rm ph})$ at constant $q$ and an influence of the size related effects on the system thermodynamics.

Paper number 180:
Title: Effect of arsenic doping on structural and electronic properties of MoSe$_2$ monolayer: an ab initio study
Authors: B. Bradji, M. L. Benkhedir
Abstract: In this paper, we studied the structural and electronic properties of MoSe$_2$ monolayer in its pure and doped forms, using the density functional theory (DFT), and the calculations were performed using Quantum Espresso (QE) software package. The doped systems are a MoSe$_2$ monolayer with a vacancy in Mo site (Mo vacancy system), the MoSe$_2$ monolayer with an As atom as substitutional for Mo atom (As(Mo) doped system) and an MoSe$_2$ monolayer with As atom in an interstitial site in the hollow location of the center of one ring of the structure between the plane Mo atoms and the plane containing Se atoms (As interstitial system). We calculated the formation energy of various structures studied in Se-rich condition. We found that the As(Mo) doped system is a favorable configuration, whereas the As interstitial system is metastable. Different defects introduce midgap levels, which were interpreted according to the orbitals involved in their formation using the analysis of the band structure and DOS and PDOS of each system. The energy gap increases in all system structures and its value ranged between 1.5 eV and 1.73 eV, the Fermi level shifts toward the valence band for the Mo vacancy system, and As(Mo) doped system which suggests that it can be a $p$-type semiconductor, whereas Fermi level shifts to the conduction band for As interstitial system and suggests a $n$-type semiconductor behavior. The obtained results enable us to predict the possibility of using these systems in many applications, since it can be used in the As(Mo) doped system in photocatalysis or in photovoltaic applications in the visible light, and As interstitial system can be used in electronics applications in the infrared field.

Paper number 181:
Title: The $S=\frac{1}{2}$ XY and XYZ models on the two or higher dimensional hypercubic lattice do not possess nontrivial local conserved quantities
Authors: Naoto Shiraishi, Hal Tasaki
Abstract: We study the $S=\frac{1}{2}$ quantum spin system on the $d$-dimensional hypercubic lattice with $d\ge2$ with uniform nearest-neighbor interaction of the XY or XYZ type and arbitrary uniform magnetic field. By extending the method recently developed for quantum spin chains, we prove that the model possesses no local conserved quantities except for the trivial ones, such as the Hamiltonian. This result strongly suggests that the model is non-integrable. We note that our result applies to the XX model without a magnetic field, which is one of the easiest solvable models in one dimension.

Paper number 182:
Title: Anisotropic and tunable vortex topology in multiband iron-based superconductors
Authors: Si-Qi Yu, Wei Cheng, Chuang Li, Xiao-Hong Pan, Gang Xu, Fu-Chun Zhang, Xin Liu
Abstract: Building on the multiband nature of iron-based superconductors (FeSCs), we have uncovered pronounced anisotropy in Majorana vortex topology arising from the interaction between vortex orientation and multiple electronic topologies. This anisotropy manifests in two distinct vortex configurations: the z-vortex and x-vortex, oriented perpendicular and parallel to the Dirac axis (z-axis for FeSCs), respectively. The x-vortex exhibits a unique duality, displaying two distinct topological phase diagrams. One is strikingly simple, comprising only trivial and topological superconducting phases, and remains resilient to multiband entanglement. The other mirrors the z-vortex's complex diagram, featuring alternating trivial, topological crystalline and topological superconducting phases. Crucially, the former is exclusive to the x-vortex and supports unpaired Majorana vortices across a wide parameter range, even with Dirac nodes in electronic bands. Notably, uniaxial strain can modulate these x-vortex phases, enabling the x-vortex to support both stable Majorana vortices and rich exotic physics in a controllable manner. Moreover, we propose that the x-vortex offers promising advantages for developing iron-based superconducting quantum devices. Our findings introduce a novel paradigm in vortex topology within multiband superconducting systems, highlighting the x-vortex as a promising platform for exploring Majorana physics and advancing iron-based superconducting quantum technology.

Paper number 183:
Title: The effect of grain boundary misorientation on hydrogen flux using a phase-field based diffusion and trapping model
Authors: Abdelrahman Hussein, Byungki Kim, Kim Verbeken, Tom Depover
Abstract: Understanding hydrogen-grain boundary (GB) interactions is critical to the analysis of hydrogen embrittlement in metals. This work presents a mesoscale fully kinetic model to investigate the effect of GB misorientation on hydrogen diffusion and trapping using phase-field based representative volume elements (RVEs). The flux equation consists of three terms: a diffusive term and two terms for high and low angle grain boundary (H/LAGB) trapping. Uptake simulations showed that decreasing the grain size resulted in higher hydrogen content due to increasing the GB density. Permeation simulations showed that GBs are high flux paths due to their higher enrichment with hydrogen. Since HAGBs have higher enrichment than LAGBs, due to their higher trap-binding energy, they generally have the highest hydrogen flux. Nevertheless, the flux shows a convoluted behavior as it depends on the local concentration, alignment of GB with external concentration gradient as well as the GB network connectivity. Finally, decreasing the grain size resulted in a larger break-through time and a larger steady-state exit flux.

Paper number 184:
Title: Novel magnetic Ni-N-Ni centers in N-substituted NiO
Authors: Simon Godin, Ilya S. Elfimov, Fengmiao Li, Bruce A. Davidson, Ronny Sutarto, Jonathan D. Denlinger, Liu Hao Tjeng, George A. Sawatzky, Ke Zou
Abstract: Following the concept of creating individual centers, we investigate local electronic states and magnetic ordering in nickel oxide (NiO) induced by substituting oxygen (O) with nitrogen (N). Each N introduces an additional N 2p hole and alters the state of the magnetic moment at a neighboring nickel (Ni) cation site, as the exchange interaction between this hole and the Ni eg electrons dominates the superexchange interaction. This leads to the formation of Ni-N-Ni units consisting of five spins that are decoupled from the rest of the antiferromagnetic (AFM) NiO lattice and exhibit degenerate spin states. These centers are studied using density functional theory and confirmed through high-resolution spectroscopy measurements on N-substituted NiO thin films grown by molecular beam epitaxy. This type of magnetic design could potentially advance quantum technologies based on strongly correlated materials, such as quantum sensors and spin-qubits.

Paper number 185:
Title: Identifying Split Vacancies with Foundation Models and Electrostatics
Authors: Seán R. Kavanagh
Abstract: Point defects are ubiquitous in solid-state compounds, dictating many functional properties such as conductivity, catalytic activity and carrier recombination. Over the past decade, the prevalence of metastable defect geometries and their importance to relevant properties has been increasingly recognised. A particularly striking example of this is split vacancies, where an isolated atomic vacancy transforms to a stoichiometry-conserving complex of two vacancies and an interstitial ($V_X \rightarrow [V_X + X_i + V_X]$), which can be accompanied by a dramatic lowering of the defect energy and change in behaviour. Such species are particularly challenging to identify from computation, due to the `non-local' nature of this reconstruction. Here, I present an approach for efficiently identifying such species in solid-state compounds, through tiered screening which combines geometric analysis, electrostatic energies and foundation machine learning (ML) models. This approach allows the screening of all compounds in the Materials Project database (including all entries in the ICSD, along with several thousand predicted metastable materials), identifying thousands of split vacancy configurations, hitherto unknown. This study highlights both the potential utility of machine-learning potentials for defect investigations, with important caveats, and the importance of global optimisation approaches for correctly identifying stable defect geometries.

Paper number 186:
Title: Multiplicative Chern insulator
Authors: Archi Banerjee, Michał J. Pacholski, Ashley M. Cook
Abstract: We study multiplicative Chern insulators (MCIs) as canonical examples of multiplicative topological phases of matter. Constructing the MCI Bloch Hamiltonian as a symmetry-protected tensor product of two topologically non-trivial parent Chern insulators (CIs), we study two-dimensional (2D) MCIs and introduce 3D mixed MCIs, constructed by requiring the two 2D parent Hamiltonians share only one momentum component. We study the 2D MCI response to time reversal symmetric flux insertion, observing a $4\pi$ Aharonov-Bohm effect, relating these topological states to fractional quantum Hall states via the effective field theory of the quantum skyrmion Hall effect. As part of this response, we observe evidence of quantisation of a proposed topological invariant for compactified many-body states, to a rational number, suggesting higher-dimensional topology may also be relevant. Finally, we study effects of bulk perturbations breaking the symmetry-protected tensor product structure of the child Hamiltonian, finding the MCI evolves adiabatically into a topological skyrmion phase.

Paper number 187:
Title: Signatures of the quantum skyrmion Hall effect in the Bernevig-Hughes-Zhang model
Authors: Reyhan Ay, Adipta Pal, Ashley M. Cook
Abstract: Given recent discovery of the quantum skyrmion Hall effect, we re-examine the related canonical Bernevig-Hughes-Zhang (BHZ) model for the quantum spin Hall insulator. Within the framework of the quantum skyrmion Hall effect, isospin degree(s) of freedom of the BHZ model encode additional spatial dimensions. Consistent with this framework, we observe phenomena similar to those of the four dimensional Chern insulator, revealed by weakly breaking time-reversal symmetry. Bulk-boundary correspondence of these states includes real-space boundary orbital angular momentum textures and gapless boundary modes that are robust against magnetic disorder, consistent with compactified three dimensional boundary Weyl nodes (WN$_F$s) of the quantum skyrmion Hall effect. These theoretical findings are furthermore consistent with past experimental work reporting unexpected edge conduction in HgTe quantum wells under applied Zeeman and orbital magnetic fields. This past work is therefore potentially the first known experimental observation of signatures of the quantum skyrmion Hall effect beyond the quantum Hall effect.

Paper number 188:
Title: Gauge field fluctuation corrected QED3 effective action by fermionic particle-vortex duality
Authors: Wei-Han Hsiao
Abstract: We present a non-perturbative framework for incorporating gauge field fluctuations into effective actions of QED3 in the infrared using fermionic particle-vortex duality. This approach is demonstrated through the applications to models containing N species of 2-component Dirac fermions in solvable and interpretable electromagnetic backgrounds, focusing on N = 1 or 2. For the N = 1 model, we establish a correspondence between fermion Casimir energy at finite density and the magnetic Euler-Heisenberg Lagrangian, and further evaluate the corrections to their amplitudes. This predicts amplification of charge susceptibility and reduction of magnetic permeability. We additionally provide physical interpretations for each component of our calculation and offer alternative derivations based on energy density measurements in different characteristic lengths. For N = 2, we show that magnetic catalysis is erased in a U(1)xU(1) QED3, indicating no breakdown of chiral symmetry. Reasoning is offered based on the properties of the lowest Landau level wave functions.

Paper number 189:
Title: Bethe Ansatz
Authors: Frank Göhmann
Abstract: The term Bethe Ansatz stands for a multitude of methods in the theory of integrable models in statistical mechanics and quantum field theory that were designed to study the spectra, the thermodynamic properties and the correlation functions of these models non-perturbatively. This essay attempts to a give a brief overview of some of these methods and their development, mostly based on the example of the Heisenberg model and the corresponding six-vertex model.

Paper number 190:
Title: Typical entanglement entropy in systems with particle-number conservation
Authors: Yale Yauk, Rohit Patil, Yicheng Zhang, Marcos Rigol, Lucas Hackl
Abstract: We calculate the typical bipartite entanglement entropy $\langle S_A\rangle_N$ in systems containing indistinguishable particles of any kind as a function of the total particle number $N$, the volume $V$, and the subsystem fraction $f=V_A/V$, where $V_A$ is the volume of the subsystem. We expand our result as a power series $\langle S_A\rangle_N=a f V+b\sqrt{V}+c+o(1)$, and find that $c$ is universal (i.e., independent of the system type), while $a$ and $b$ can be obtained from a generating function characterizing the local Hilbert space dimension. We illustrate the generality of our findings by studying a wide range of different systems, e.g., bosons, fermions, spins, and mixtures thereof. We provide evidence that our analytical results describe the entanglement entropy of highly excited eigenstates of quantum-chaotic spin and boson systems, which is distinct from that of integrable counterparts.

Paper number 191:
Title: A High Dimensional Statistical Model for Adversarial Training: Geometry and Trade-Offs
Authors: Kasimir Tanner, Matteo Vilucchio, Bruno Loureiro, Florent Krzakala
Abstract: This work investigates adversarial training in the context of margin-based linear classifiers in the high-dimensional regime where the dimension $d$ and the number of data points $n$ diverge with a fixed ratio $\alpha = n / d$. We introduce a tractable mathematical model where the interplay between the data and adversarial attacker geometries can be studied, while capturing the core phenomenology observed in the adversarial robustness literature. Our main theoretical contribution is an exact asymptotic description of the sufficient statistics for the adversarial empirical risk minimiser, under generic convex and non-increasing losses for a Block Feature Model. Our result allow us to precisely characterise which directions in the data are associated with a higher generalisation/robustness trade-off, as defined by a robustness and a usefulness metric. We show that the the presence of multiple different feature types is crucial to the high sample complexity performances of adversarial training. In particular, we unveil the existence of directions which can be defended without penalising accuracy. Finally, we show the advantage of defending non-robust features during training, identifying a uniform protection as an inherently effective defence mechanism.

Paper number 192:
Title: Entanglement dynamics in 2d HCFTs on the curved background: the case of q-M\"obius Hamiltonian
Authors: Chen Bai, Akihiro Miyata, Masahiro Nozaki
Abstract: We will explore the dynamical property of non-equilibrium phenomena induced by two-dimensional holographic conformal field theory (2d holographic CFT) Hamiltonian on the curved spacetime by studying the time dependence of the entanglement entropy and mutual information. Here, holographic CFT is the CFT having the gravity dual. We will start from the boundary and thermofield double states, evolve the systems in Euclidean time with the Hamiltonian on the curved background, and then evolve them in real-time with the same Hamiltonian. We found that the early- and late-time entanglement structure depends on the curved background, while the entanglement growth does not, and is linear. Furthermore, in the gravity dual for the thermofield double state, this entanglement growth is due to the linear growth of the wormhole, while in the one for the boundary state, it is due to the in-falling of the end of the world brane to the black hole. We discussed the low temperature system can be regarded as the dynamical system induced by the multi-joining quenches. We also discussed the effective description of the high temperature system, called line tension picture.

Paper number 193:
Title: Gravity from entropy
Authors: Ginestra Bianconi
Abstract: Gravity is derived from an entropic action coupling matter fields with geometry. The fundamental idea is to relate the metric of Lorentzian spacetime {to a quantum operator, playing the role of an renormalizable effective density matrix and to describe the matter fields topologically, according to a Dirac-Kähler formalism, as the direct sum of a zero-form, a one-form and a two-form. While the geometry of spacetime is defined by its metric, the matter fields can be used to define an alternative metric, the metric induced by the matter fields, which geometrically describes the interplay between spacetime and matter. The proposed entropic action is the quantum relative entropy between the metric of spacetime and the metric induced by the matter fields. The modified Einstein equations obtained from this action reduce to the Einstein equations with zero cosmological constant in the regime of low coupling. By introducing the {\em G-field}, which acts as a set of Lagrangian multipliers, the proposed entropic action reduces to a dressed Einstein-Hilbert action with an emergent small and positive cosmological constant only dependent on the G-field. The obtained equations of modified gravity remain second order in the metric and in the G-field. A canonical quantization of this field theory could bring new insights into quantum gravity while further research might clarify the role that the G-field could have for dark matter.

Paper number 194:
Title: Rapidly yawing spheroids in viscous shear flow: Emergent loss of symmetry
Authors: Mohit P. Dalwadi
Abstract: We investigate the emergent three-dimensional (3D) dynamics of a rapidly yawing spheroidal swimmer interacting with a viscous shear flow. We show that the rapid yawing generates non-axisymmetric emergent effects, with the active swimmer behaving as an effective passive particle with two orthogonal planes of symmetry. We also demonstrate that this effective asymmetry generated by the rapid yawing can cause chaotic behaviour in the emergent dynamics, in stark contrast to the emergent dynamics generated by rapidly rotating spheroids, which are equivalent to those of effective passive spheroids. In general, we find that the shape of the equivalent effective particle under rapid yawing is different to the average shape of the active particle. Moreover, despite having two planes of symmetry, the equivalent passive particle is not an ellipsoid in general, except for specific scenarios in which the effective shape is a spheroid. In these scenarios, we calculate analytically the equivalent aspect ratio of the effective spheroid. We use a multiple scales analysis for systems to derive the emergent swimmer behaviour, which requires solving a nonautonomous nonlinear 3D dynamical system, and we validate our analysis via comparison to numerical simulations.

Paper number 195:
Title: Chaos and spatial prethermalization in driven-dissipative bosonic chains
Authors: Filippo Ferrari, Fabrizio Minganti, Camille Aron, Vincenzo Savona
Abstract: Thermalization in quantum many-body systems, the process by which they naturally evolve toward thermal equilibrium, typically unfolds over timescales set by the underlying relaxation mechanisms. Yet, the spatial aspect of thermalization in these systems is less understood. We investigate this phenomenon within the nonequilibrium steady state (NESS) of a Bose-Hubbard chain subject at its boundaries to coherent driving and dissipation, a setup inspired by current designs in circuit quantum electrodynamics. We uncover a two-stage thermalization process along the spatial dimension. Close to the coherent drive, the U(1) symmetry of the phase of the photonic field is restored over a short length scale, while its amplitude relaxes over a much larger scale. This opens up an extensive region of the chain where the photon density remains high, and the chaotic dynamics give rise to a hydrodynamic regime, characterized by local equilibria with a large and slowly-varying effective chemical potential. Dynamical fingerprints of chaos in this NESS are probed using semiclassical out-of-time-order correlators (OTOCs) within the truncated Wigner approximation (TWA). We explore the conditions underlying this protracted thermalization in space and argue that similar prethermal chaotic phases are likely to occur in a broad range of extended driven-dissipative systems.

Paper number 196:
Title: Oscillatory dissipative tunneling in an asymmetric double-well potential
Authors: Alejandro Cros Carrillo de Albornoz, Rodrigo G. Cortiñas, Max Schäfer, Nicholas E. Frattini, Brandon Allen, Delmar G. A. Cabral, Pablo E. Videla, Pouya Khazaei, Eitan Geva, Victor S. Batista, Michel H. Devoret
Abstract: Dissipative tunneling remains a cornerstone effect in quantum mechanics. In chemistry, it plays a crucial role in governing the rates of chemical reactions, often modeled as the motion along the reaction coordinate from one potential well to another. The relative positions of energy levels in these wells strongly influence the reaction dynamics. Chemical research will benefit from a fully adjustable, asymmetric double-well equipped with precise measurement capabilities of the tunneling rates. In this paper, we show a quantum simulator system that consists of a continuously driven Kerr parametric oscillator with a third order non-linearity that can be operated in the quantum regime to create a fully tunable asymmetric double-well. Our experiment leverages a low-noise, all-microwave control system with a high-efficiency readout, based on a tunnel Josephson junction circuit, of the which-well information. We explore the reaction rates across the landscape of tunneling resonances in parameter space. We uncover two new and counter-intuitive effects: (i) a weak asymmetry can significantly decrease the activation rates, even though the well in which the system is initialized is made shallower, and (ii) the width of the tunneling resonances alternates between narrow and broad lines as a function of the well depth and asymmetry. We predict by numerical simulations that both effects will also manifest themselves in ordinary chemical double-well systems in the quantum regime. Our work is a first step for the development of analog molecule simulators of proton transfer reactions based on quantum superconducting circuits.

Paper number 197:
Title: Extractable energy from quantum superposition of current states
Authors: Francesco Perciavalle, Davide Rossini, Juan Polo, Luigi Amico
Abstract: We explore the energy content of superpositions of current states. Specifically, we focus on the maximum energy that can be extracted from them through local unitary transformations. The figure of merit we employ is the local ergotropy. We perform a complete analysis in the whole range of the system's parameters. This way, we prove that superpositions of two current states in spatially closed spin networks are characterized by specific peaks in extractable energy, generally overcoming the ergotropy of each of the two separate current states characterized by a single winding number. The many-body state dynamics entails to ergotropy evolving in a controlled fashion. The implementation we suggest is based on a Rydberg-atom platform. Optimal transformations able to extract locally the maximum possible amount of energy are sorted out.

Paper number 198:
Title: A Self-Supervised Robotic System for Autonomous Contact-Based Spatial Mapping of Semiconductor Properties
Authors: Alexander E. Siemenn, Basita Das, Kangyu Ji, Fang Sheng, Tonio Buonassisi
Abstract: Integrating robotically driven contact-based material characterization techniques into self-driving laboratories can enhance measurement quality, reliability, and throughput. While deep learning models support robust autonomy, current methods lack reliable pixel-precision positioning and require extensive labeled data. To overcome these challenges, we propose an approach for building self-supervised autonomy into contact-based robotic systems that teach the robot to follow domain expert measurement principles at high-throughputs. Firstly, we design a vision-based, self-supervised convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture that uses differentiable image priors to optimize domain-specific objectives, refining the pixel precision of predicted robot contact poses by 20.0% relative to existing approaches. Secondly, we design a reliable graph-based planner for generating distance-minimizing paths to accelerate the robot measurement throughput and decrease planning variance by 6x. We demonstrate the performance of this approach by autonomously driving a 4-degree-of-freedom robotic probe for 24 hours to characterize semiconductor photoconductivity at 3,025 uniquely predicted poses across a gradient of drop-casted perovskite film compositions, achieving throughputs over 125 measurements per hour. Spatially mapping photoconductivity onto each drop-casted film reveals compositional trends and regions of inhomogeneity, valuable for identifying manufacturing process defects. With this self-supervised CNN-driven robotic system, we enable high-precision and reliable automation of contact-based characterization techniques at high throughputs, thereby allowing the measurement of previously inaccessible yet important semiconductor properties for self-driving laboratories.

Paper number 199:
Title: Phase Transitions on 1d Long-Range Ising Models with Decaying Fields: A Direct Proof via Contours
Authors: Lucas Affonso, Rodrigo Bissacot, Henrique Corsini, Kelvyn Welsch
Abstract: Following seminal work by J. Fröhlich and T. Spencer on the critical exponent $\alpha=2$, we give a proof via contours of phase transition in the one-dimensional long-range ferromagnetic Ising model in the entire region of decay, where phase transition is known to occur, i.e., polynomial decay $\alpha \in (1,2]$. No assumptions that the nearest-neighbor interaction $J(1)$ is large are made. The robustness of the method also yields a proof of phase transition in the presence of a nonsummable external field that decays sufficiently fast.

Paper number 200:
Title: Industrial-scale Prediction of Cement Clinker Phases using Machine Learning
Authors: Sheikh Junaid Fayaz, Nestor Montiel-Bohorquez, Shashank Bishnoi, Matteo Romano, Manuele Gatti, N. M. Anoop Krishnan
Abstract: Cement production, exceeding 4.1 billion tonnes and contributing 2.4 tonnes of CO2 annually, faces critical challenges in quality control and process optimization. While traditional process models for cement manufacturing are confined to steady-state conditions with limited predictive capability for mineralogical phases, modern plants operate under dynamic conditions that demand real-time quality assessment. Here, exploiting a comprehensive two-year operational dataset from an industrial cement plant, we present a machine learning framework that accurately predicts clinker mineralogy from process data. Our model achieves unprecedented prediction accuracy for major clinker phases while requiring minimal input parameters, demonstrating robust performance under varying operating conditions. Through post-hoc explainable algorithms, we interpret the hierarchical relationships between clinker oxides and phase formation, providing insights into the functioning of an otherwise black-box model. This digital twin framework can potentially enable real-time optimization of cement production, thereby providing a route toward reducing material waste and ensuring quality while reducing the associated emissions under real plant conditions. Our approach represents a significant advancement in industrial process control, offering a scalable solution for sustainable cement manufacturing.

Paper number 201:
Title: Effective field theory of the quantum skyrmion Hall effect
Authors: Vinay Patil, Rafael Flores-Calderón, Ashley M. Cook
Abstract: Motivated by phenomenology of myriad recently-identified topologically non-trivial phases of matter, we introduce effective field theories (EFTs) for the quantum skyrmion Hall effect (QSkHE). We employ a single, unifying generalisation for this purpose: in essence, a lowest Landau level projection defining a non-commutative, fuzzy sphere with position coordinates proportional to SU(2) generators of matrix representation size $N\times N$, may host an intrinsically 2+1 dimensional, topologically non-trivial many-body state for small $N$ as well as large $N$. That is, isospin degrees of freedom associated with a matrix Lie algebra with $N \times N$ generators potentially encode some finite number of spatial dimensions for $N\ge 2$, a regime in which isospin has previously been treated as a label. This statement extends to more general $p$-branes subjected to severe fuzzification as well as membranes. As a consequence of this generalisation, systems with $d$ Cartesian spatial coordinates and isospin degrees of freedom encoding an additional $\delta$ fuzzy coset space coordinates can realise topologically non-trivial states of intrinsic dimensionality up to $d$+$\delta$+1. We therefore identify gauge theories with extra fuzzy dimensions generalised to retain dependence upon gauge fields over fuzzy coset spaces even for severe fuzzification (small $N$), as EFTs for the QSkHE. We furthermore generalise these EFTs to space manifolds with local product structure exploiting the dimensional hierarchy of (fuzzy) spheres. For this purpose, we introduce methods of anisotropic fuzzification and propose formulating topological invariants on fuzzy coset spaces as artifacts of projecting matrix Lie algebras to occupied subspaces. Importantly, we focus on phenomenology indicating the 2+1 D SU(2) gauge theory should be generalised using this machinery, and serves as a minimal EFT of the QSkHE.
    